SECTION: A2-2-07
TITLE: Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties
EFFECTIVE: 08/02/2023
PAGES: 48-56
---
Published June 3, 2026
30
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
 
A2-2-07, Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties (08/02/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the life-of-loan representations and warranties that lenders are
responsible for, including:
Overview
Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Fannie Mae Charter Act Matters
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Misstatements, Misrepresentations, and Omissions
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Data Inaccuracies
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Clear Title/First-Lien Enforceability
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Compliance with Laws and Responsible Lending Practices
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Unacceptable Mortgage Products
Overview
In order to sell loans to Fannie Mae or deliver pools of loans to Fannie Mae for MBS, the lender makes
representations and warranties as to certain facts and circumstances concerning the lender and the mortgage
loans it is selling or delivering. Fannie Mae provides lenders with relief from enforcement for breaches of certain
underwriting and eligibility representations and warranties for loans meeting the requirements set forth in
A2-3.2-02, Enforcement Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting
and Eligibility (“enforcement relief”). No enforcement relief is available for certain “life-of-loan” representations
and warranties.
Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties
A lender is not relieved from the enforcement of breaches of its representations and warranties on any
mortgage loan, including eligible mortgage loans, with respect to the following matters even if those matters
are addressed in Subparts B1 through B5 of the Selling Guide (the subparts that pertain to underwriting and
eligibility). With respect to each mortgage loan, a lender remains responsible throughout the life of that loan for
representations and warranties related to the following, as more fully described below:
Fannie Mae Charter Act Matters;
Published June 3, 2026
31
Misstatements, Misrepresentations, and Omissions;
Data Inaccuracies;
Clear Title/First-Lien Enforceability;
Compliance with Laws and Responsible Lending Practices; and
Unacceptable Mortgage Products.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Fannie Mae Charter Act Matters
The lender is responsible for representations and warranties for the life of the loan for compliance with Fannie
Mae's Charter Act. In accordance with its Charter Act requirements, a mortgage loan (or any participation
interest therein) must meet all of the following requirements to be eligible for sale to Fannie Mae:
be secured by property that is residential in nature. Properties that are not residential include, but are not
limited to, vacant land, property primarily used for agricultural or commercial purposes, or units located
in condo or co-op hotels;
be secured by a property located within the 50 states of the United States of America, the District of
Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States;
be secured by a property with four or fewer units, unless sold through Fannie Mae’s multifamily mortgage
business;
have an original principal balance not greater than the applicable maximum loan limit in eﬀect at the
time of Fannie Mae’s acquisition; and
have a loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of 80% or less of the security property’s value at the time Fannie Mae
acquires the loan or, if the mortgage has an LTV ratio in excess of 80%, the mortgage
has mortgage insurance on the portion of the mortgage in excess of 80% of the property's value
provided by a mortgage insurer approved under Fannie Mae’s Qualiﬁed Mortgage Insurer Approval
Requirements;
was sold with recourse for such period and under such circumstances as Fannie Mae may require;
or
was sold on a participation basis when the lender retains a minimum 10% interest.
Example
An example of a breach of Charter Act requirements is a mortgage loan secured by a property that consists of a
principal residence and a dairy farm, resulting in the property having signiﬁcant nonresidential use.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Misstatements, Misrepresentations, and Omissions
Even if a mortgage loan has met the requirements for enforcement relief set forth in A2-3.2-02, Enforcement
Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and Eligibility, the lender
remains responsible throughout the life of the loan for representations and warranties related to misstatements,
misrepresentations, and omissions as set forth below.
Published June 3, 2026
32
In connection with a mortgage loan that has qualiﬁed for relief under the framework, “misrepresentations”
means any misstatements, misrepresentations, or omissions by any party to the loan transaction made with or
without the lender’s knowledge that pertain to the borrower, the property, or the project as set forth in Subparts
B1 through B5 of the Selling Guide. Parties to the loan transaction include, but are not limited to, borrowers,
property sellers, builders, real estate agents, lenders including the selling lender, mortgage brokers, loan
oﬃcers, originators, appraisers, appraisal companies, closing agents, title companies, or other third-party
vendors performing origination services. Fannie Mae will only assert a remedy for a misrepresentation involving
a loan that has qualiﬁed for relief under the framework if all of the following criteria have been met. The
misrepresentation must
involve three or more mortgage loans delivered to Fannie Mae by the same lender;
be made pursuant to a common pattern of activity in connection with loan origination or sale, based on
information in the loan ﬁle or other facts or circumstances that existed at the time of delivery of the loan
to Fannie Mae, which involves at least one party common to all the loans;
if the selling lender is the common party, involves the same individual; or,
if a third party is the common party, involves the same individual or entity; and
be “signiﬁcant,” as deﬁned below.
Note: In identifying three or more loans to constitute the pattern, Fannie Mae may count loans that
have obtained relief under the framework and loans that have not obtained such relief. Each loan in
the pattern must meet all the requirements above in order for Fannie Mae to enforce a remedy
pursuant to this life-of-loan exclusion.
A misrepresentation (as deﬁned above) is “signiﬁcant” if Fannie Mae, using true and accurate information,
determines
that the loan would not have been eligible for sale to Fannie Mae under the terms of the lender’s contract
with Fannie Mae in eﬀect at the time of delivery of the loan, or
that the loan would have been eligible for purchase, but under diﬀerent terms.
In making this determination of signiﬁcance, Fannie Mae will rely upon a DU simulator. The DU simulator will use
the true and accurate loan information to approximate the DU recommendation as of the time of delivery and
compare it to the DU recommendation the lender obtained in the ﬁnal DU loan submission before delivery. If the
loan originally did not have a DU recommendation, the DU simulator will compare the new DU recommendation
to the DU recommendation the loan would have received using the data provided at delivery, had the lender
used DU.
A misrepresentation will be considered “signiﬁcant” for purposes of the life-of-loan test, and the lender will be
required to repurchase the loan only if the loan receives a worse DU recommendation from the simulator than it
received (or would have received) at the time of delivery to Fannie Mae, except that Fannie Mae will also take
into account any applicable variance and the impact of any undisclosed concessions, concealed transaction
terms, or other violations of the lender’s contract (including Selling Guide requirements) that are involved in the
misrepresentation, but are not evaluated by the DU simulator, when determining signiﬁcance. Fannie Mae will
notify the lender of any such undisclosed matters or violations that are considered in connection with
determining such signiﬁcance. Fannie Mae will provide the lender with documentation supporting the
signiﬁcance determination.
Published June 3, 2026
33
If Fannie Mae determines that the loan would have been eligible for purchase under diﬀerent terms than those
under which the loan was sold, Fannie Mae will not seek repurchase, but instead will re-price the loan,
consistent with the lender’s contract at the time of loan delivery, to reﬂect the true risk proﬁle of the loan.
Fraud. A mortgage loan involving fraud will be subject to repurchase, regardless of whether the standards
described above (that is, the number of aﬀected loans, a common pattern of activity, and a signiﬁcance
determination) have been met. For purposes of this life-of-loan exclusion only, fraud is established either by
an adjudicated claim aﬃrming fraud by or against the lender or other party to the loan transaction; or
Fannie Mae ﬁnding clear and convincing evidence that the lender or other party to the loan transaction
knowingly executed or participated in a scheme or artiﬁce in connection with the underwriting,
origination, or sale of a loan in order to
defraud Fannie Mae or any other party to the loan transaction; or
obtain any moneys, funds, credits, assets, securities, or other properties from Fannie Mae or any
other party to the loan transaction by means of fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises.
Note: Lenders continue, at all times, to be responsible for any misstatement, misrepresentation, or
omission in connection with any matter not relieved under the framework (that is, not addressed in
Subparts B1 through B5 of the Selling Guide). Mortgage loans are subject at all times to Fannie Mae’s
standard requirements related to fraud, misstatements, misrepresentations, or omissions as described
in the Selling Guide, A3-4-03, Preventing, Detecting, and Reporting Mortgage Fraud.The lender is
required to report suspected mortgage fraud whenever a reasonable basis exists to conclude that it
may have occurred, regardless of whether the loan has obtained relief or Fannie Mae may require the
lender to repurchase the loan.
 
Examples
The following examples illustrate some instances of application of this life-of-loan exclusion:
An example of a misstatement in which the lender may be required to repurchase loans even if the loans
have obtained relief:
In order to qualify borrowers in four separate home purchase transactions, the same loan oﬃcer
employed by a lender understates the liabilities of the borrowers in each DU submission, aﬀecting the
debt-to-income ratio in each instance. The lender sells all four loans to Fannie Mae. The pattern of
understatements comes to light after the loans have obtained relief under the framework. Fannie Mae
utilizes the DU simulator, applying the DU rules that were in place at the time of delivery of each loan and
the correct amount of total borrower liabilities. The DU simulator provides an “ineligible”
recommendation for each of the four loans. In this instance, the lender must repurchase the four loans, if
requested, despite the fact that the loans obtained relief.
An example of an omission in which the lender may be required to repurchase the mortgage loans even if
the loans have obtained relief:
In order to sell newly-built homes more quickly, a real estate agent and a property developer provide
each borrower in three separate transactions with a $15,000 rebate outside of closing that is not
disclosed in the sales contracts or in the settlement statements. All three loans are sold to Fannie Mae by
the same lender. This practice is in violation of Fannie Mae's undisclosed interested party contributions
policy. Had these rebates been taken into account, each of the loans would have failed to qualify for
Published June 3, 2026
34
purchase by Fannie Mae. Though this policy is not evaluated by, or able to aﬀect the results of, the DU
simulator, noncompliance makes the loans ineligible for delivery. In this instance, the lender must
repurchase the three loans, if requested, even if the loans have obtained relief.
An example of fraud in which the lender may be required to repurchase a single mortgage loan because
of clear and convincing evidence of a scheme or artiﬁce to defraud:
A borrower borrows $10,000 from a friend as part of a down payment on a home. He has secretly
promised to pay the friend back with interest. The borrower provides a falsiﬁed gift letter to the lender
documenting a $10,000 gift from an uncle. The lender would be required, if requested, to repurchase the
loan if Fannie Mae subsequently can demonstrate that part of the down payment was borrowed—even if
the loan had obtained relief. Because the borrower’s misstatement to the lender involved the knowingly
executed scheme or artiﬁce to obtain a loan by use of fraudulently fabricated evidence that supports an
incorrect factual representation made by the borrower, the loan is subject to repurchase, despite not
involving a pattern of activity aﬀecting three or more loans or meeting the “signiﬁcance” test.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Data Inaccuracies
Lenders are responsible for supplying Fannie Mae with high-quality, accurate, and complete data through a
variety of systems, including but not limited to, Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application, DU, and Loan
Delivery. (See A3-4-02, Data Quality and Integrity, for additional information.)
Even if a mortgage loan has met the requirements for enforcement relief set forth in A2-3.2-02, Enforcement
Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and Eligibility, the lender
remains responsible throughout the life of the loan for representations and warranties related to data accuracy
as set forth below. In connection with mortgage loans delivered to Fannie Mae, there must not be delivery data
(Uniform Loan Delivery Dataset) inaccuracies pertaining to the borrower, the property, or the project, if and to
the extent
the data inaccuracies aﬀect ﬁve or more loans and involve the same delivery data element(s);
such delivery data diﬀer from the information documented in the lender's mortgage loan ﬁles; and
the data inaccuracies are “signiﬁcant,” in that, using the information of the loan ﬁle to qualify the
borrower, property, and project,
the loan would not have been eligible for delivery under the terms of the lender’s contracts with
Fannie Mae in eﬀect at the time of delivery of the loan; or
the loan would have been eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, but under diﬀerent terms.
Note: In identifying ﬁve or more loans involving the same data element inaccuracy, Fannie Mae may
count loans that have obtained relief under the framework and loans that have not obtained such
relief. Each loan in the pattern must meet all the requirements above in order for Fannie Mae to
enforce a remedy.
In determining whether the data inaccuracies are “signiﬁcant” for purposes of the life-of-loan test, Fannie Mae
will rely upon the DU simulator. The DU simulator will use the true and accurate loan information to approximate
the DU recommendation as of the time of delivery and compare it to the DU recommendation the lender
obtained in the ﬁnal DU loan submission before delivery. If the loan originally did not have a DU
recommendation, the DU simulator will compare the new DU recommendation to the DU recommendation the
loan would have received using the data provided at delivery, had the lender used DU.
Published June 3, 2026
35
A data inaccuracy will be considered signiﬁcant and the lender will be required to repurchase the loan only if the
loan receives a worse DU risk assessment from the simulator than it received (or would have received) at the
time of delivery to Fannie Mae. Fannie Mae will also take into account any applicable variance entered into with
the lender when determining such signiﬁcance. Fannie Mae will provide the lender with documentation
supporting the signiﬁcance determination.
If Fannie Mae determines that the loan would have been eligible for purchase using the accurate information
from the loan ﬁle but under diﬀerent terms than those under which the loan was sold, Fannie Mae will not seek
repurchase, but will instead re-price the loan, consistent with the lender’s contract at the time of loan delivery,
to reﬂect the true risk proﬁle of the loan.
Examples
The following examples illustrate instances of application of this life-of-loan exclusion:
In connection with a system upgrade, a coding error is introduced into a lender’s system such that the
representative credit score is incorrectly calculated. The lender reports inaccurate representative credit
scores at loan delivery for ﬁve or more loans. After the loans obtain relief, a review of the credit reports in
the lender’s origination ﬁles shows that for these mortgages, the actual representative credit scores were
lower than those reﬂected in the data provided at delivery. The DU simulator, using the actual
representative credit scores, produces an “ineligible” recommendation for each loan. The lender must
repurchase the aﬀected loans, if requested, despite the fact that the loans have obtained relief.
For unknown reasons over a period of time, the lender’s origination system indicated that TILA-exempt
investment property loans were principal residences. This error was reﬂected both in the DU submission
and in the ULDD data at delivery for 30 loans. After the loans obtained relief, a review of the
documentation in the lender’s loan ﬁles uncovers the error. The DU simulator, using the correct, revised
data, produces an “Approve/Eligible” recommendation on 20 of the loans and a “Refer with
Caution/Ineligible” recommendation on the other 10 loans. Fannie Mae will not require the lender to
repurchase the 20 loans, but may assess increased loan-level price adjustments to reﬂect their actual
risk. However, if requested, the lender must repurchase the 10 loans that received a “Refer with
Caution/Ineligible” recommendation.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Clear Title/First-Lien Enforceability
The lender is responsible for representations and warranties for the life of the loan that pertain to clear title and
ﬁrst-lien enforceability. A mortgage loan must
be sold by a lender that was the sole owner and holder of the mortgage loan and had the full right and
authority to sell and assign it, or a participation interest therein, to Fannie Mae. The lender’s right to sell
or assign the mortgage loan cannot be subject to any other party’s interest or to an agreement with any
other party;
be a valid and subsisting ﬁrst lien enforceable in accordance with its terms (with no pending
condemnation or other legal proceedings) and that otherwise meets Fannie Mae’s requirements for loan
documents;
have a mortgagee policy of title insurance meeting Fannie Mae’s requirements, or other title evidence
acceptable to Fannie Mae. Lenders continue to be responsible for all warranties related to title,
marketability, and lien position, regardless of whether included or excluded by coverage under a
Published June 3, 2026
36
mortgagee policy of title insurance. Any defect shown on the title policy would not be considered to be an
acceptable minor impediment if there was additional cost or delay involved in curing such defect;
permit foreclosure or other enforcement of the note holder’s rights under the loan documents and
acquisition of good and marketable title to the underlying security property without incurring any
expenses or delays as a result of any matters aﬀecting title to the property, including legal or land use
restrictions or other defects relating to the land or location of the improvements.
Examples
Examples of a breach of these clear title/ﬁrst-lien enforceability requirements include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Another party, such as a warehouse lender, asserts a claim to or interest in the loan.
Fannie Mae is unable to obtain clear title to the property because it is not in ﬁrst-lien position.
The lender fails to properly endorse the note or to adhere to requirements for the use of powers of
attorney.
A mortgage loan is delivered to Fannie Mae with a Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) loan secured
by the same property and the mortgage loan does not meet Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements for
mortgages delivered with PACE loans.
Improvements that were included in the appraised value of the property do not fall totally within the
property’s boundaries or building restriction lines and were not otherwise permitted encroachments
under the terms of the Selling Guide.
A mortgage loan is delivered to Fannie Mae that is secured by a property encumbered by private transfer
fee covenants that do not meet Fannie Mae’s requirements.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Compliance with Laws and Responsible Lending
Practices
The lender is responsible for representations and warranties for the life of the loan that pertain to compliance
with laws and responsible lending practices. A mortgage loan must be originated in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations as set forth in  A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws;
Fannie Mae’s responsible lending policies as set forth in  A3-2-02, Responsible Lending Practices; and
policies adopted by Fannie Mae to implement or comply with directives or regulations issued by FHFA,
including the following:
Appraiser Independence Requirements,
Property Data Collector Independence Requirements,
private transfer fee requirements, and
Ability to Repay Loan Eligibility Requirements as set forth in  B2-1.5-02, Loan Eligibility.
Examples
Examples of breach of compliance with laws, responsible lending practices requirements, and FHFA directives
Published June 3, 2026
37
include, but are not limited to, the following:
The appraisal for a mortgage loan does not conform to the  Appraiser Independence Requirements  (FHFA
directive)
The property data collection does not conform to the Property Data Collector Independence
Requirements  (FHFA directive)
A mortgage loan is secured by a unit in a condo project that was not created in compliance with
applicable state law. (Compliance with Laws)
A mortgage loan has a borrower that is an inter vivos revocable trust that was not formed in accordance
with applicable law. (Compliance with Laws)
A Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan was not originated in accordance with Texas law. (Compliance with Laws)
A lender charged total points and fees for an ATR Covered loan in excess of the applicable limit on such
points and fees in Regulation Z, 12 CFR § 1026.43(e)(3). (Compliance with Laws)
A HOEPA loan. (Responsible Lending Practices)
Note: Whether any loan is subject to repurchase for noncompliance with laws will depend on whether
the conditions for repurchase in  A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws, are satisﬁed. Loans that are not
subject to repurchase under A3-2-01 may be subject to other remedies. Loans that violate Fannie
Mae’s Responsible Lending Practices or an FHFA directive are subject to repurchase.
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Unacceptable Mortgage Products
Certain mortgage loan products are not purchased by Fannie Mae. As such, these products are not eligible for
the enforcement relief described in A2-3.2-02, Enforcement Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and
Warranties Related to Underwriting and Eligibility. Note that the list below is not intended to be exhaustive; it
should be used as a reference tool in conjunction with the requirements of the Selling Guide.
Examples of loan products that Fannie Mae does not purchase are
mortgages with an interest-only feature;
graduated-payment mortgages, including growing-equity mortgages;
mortgages originated with stated or no income and/or asset documentation (high LTV reﬁnances are not
covered by this provision);
mortgages subject to negative amortization;
construction mortgages (other than construction-to-permanent);
daily simple interest mortgages;
mortgages with prepayment penalties;
reverse mortgages;
mortgages with balloon payments (with or without a reset option); and
second liens or other junior mortgages.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
38
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-07 August 02, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
Chapter A2-3, Lender Breach of Contract
Introduction
This chapter addresses the remedies available to Fannie Mae when a lender breaches the Lender Contract.
Section A2-3.1, Lender Breach of Contract
A2-3.1-01, Lender Breach of Contract (08/05/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the lender’s breach of its Lender Contract, including:
Lender Breach of Contract
Alternatives to Contract Termination
Lender Breach of Contract
Fannie Mae may terminate the Lender Contract (in its entirety or its individual selling arrangement or servicing
arrangement) with cause at any time and immediately, if the lender breaches any provisions of its Lender
Contract, including (among other things) a failure to follow the requirements of Fannie Mae’s Guides, to meet
Fannie Mae’s net worth and other ﬁnancial requirements, or to meet any of the other eligibility requirements
speciﬁed in the Lender Contract. A lender also breaches the Lender Contract in the event of a change in the
lender’s ﬁnancial or business condition, or in its operations, which in Fannie Mae’s sole judgment, is material
and adverse. It is within Fannie Mae’s discretion to determine whether a particular occurrence—or the