SECTION: A2-2-06
TITLE: Representations and Warranties on Property Value
EFFECTIVE: 06/03/2026
PAGES: 45-48
---
Published June 3, 2026
27
in compliance with all applicable laws. When the limited waiver of representations and warranties is
transferable, the selling or transferring lender must fully disclose (1) the fact that the mortgage was submitted
to DU for evaluation, and (2) the nature of the DU recommendation. The selling or transferring lender also must
include in the mortgage ﬁle that it transfers to the new lender the DU Underwriting Findings report and the
corresponding DU Underwriting Analysis report (as well as any other pertinent DU reports).
Lenders That Sell or Assign Loans Underwritten Through DU
A lender that sells or assigns loans underwritten through DU must modify its assignment letters or loan sale
agreements to set out instances in which a mortgage that was eligible for a limited waiver of representations
and warranties may no longer be considered eligible. Situations that aﬀect the continued eligibility of a
mortgage for a limited waiver of representations and warranties include, but are not limited to, the following:
a signiﬁcant change that makes the information on which the DU recommendation was based no longer
true, complete, or accurate.
the elapse of 12 months since the mortgage was originated makes the mortgage subject to Fannie Mae’s
standard eligibility requirements for seasoned mortgages.
a determination that the terms of the closed mortgage are substantially diﬀerent from those on which the
DU recommendation was based or that the DU recommendation was based on incorrect information.
Lenders That Acquire Loans Underwritten with DU
A lender that acquires loans underwritten with DU must include in its QC processes appropriate procedures to:
verify that any conditions speciﬁed in the DU Underwriting Findings report have been satisﬁed, and
conﬁrm that the data from the closed mortgage agrees with the documents and all DU reports that are in
the loan caseﬁle.
If there are inconsistencies between the data from the closed mortgage and the data on which DU’s
recommendation was based, the limited waiver of representations and warranties will not apply—unless the
lender either:
submits corrected information for the closed mortgage to DU for evaluation (if it is a licensee) and
receives an Approve/Eligible recommendation ; or
requests the licensee that originally submitted the mortgage to DU to re-enter the correct information for
the mortgage into DU (if permitted by applicable law) for the production of new reports and analyses to
conﬁrm that the recommendation is still Approve/Eligible for the limited waiver. The lender should
request that both the results of the resubmission and all new reports be sent to it.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
 
Published June 3, 2026
28
A2-2-06, Representations and Warranties on Property Value
(06/03/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the following:
Representations and Warranties Related to Collateral Underwriter (CU)
Representations and Warranties Related to Value Acceptance
Representations and Warranties Related to Collateral Underwriter (CU)
In addition to the limited waiver of underwriting representations and warranties available for certain DU loans,
loans may also beneﬁt from enforcement relief of certain representations and warranties related to the
appraisal and value of the subject property (without regard to underwriting method). To be eligible for relief:
the loan must be secured by a one-unit detached, attached, or condo property (manufactured homes are
not eligible); and
the appraisal must receive a CU risk score of 2.5 or below.
Note: See  B4-1.1-04, Unacceptable Appraisal Practices for examples of unacceptable practices.
When this criteria is met, the lender is not responsible for the following requirements described in this Guide:
underwriting the appraisal report to determine whether the subject property presents adequate collateral
for the mortgage;
ensuring the appraisal accurately reﬂects the market value of the property;
ensuring the appraiser used sound reasoning and provided evidence to support the methodology chosen
to develop the opinion of value; and
analyzing the comparable sales used in the appraisal report, including the description, selection,
adjustments, and reconciliation of the comparables.
The lender remains responsible for the description of the property, adherence to fair lending, local, state, and
federal laws and the accuracy and completeness of all data on the appraisal that pertains to the property and
project (if applicable). This includes the property’s condition and quality ratings. The lender is also responsible
for ensuring the property meets the property eligibility requirements in this Guide. Lastly, the lender remains
responsible for any life-of-loan representations and warranties that may apply to the property or the appraisal.
Representations and Warranties Related to Value Acceptance
In addition to the limited waiver of underwriting representations and warranties available for certain DU loans,
when a loan caseﬁle is eligible for value acceptance or value acceptance + property data, and is exercised by
the lender, Fannie Mae accepts the value estimate submitted by the lender as the value for the subject
property. The estimated property value the lender enters in DU must be:
Published June 3, 2026
29
based on the lender’s or borrower's estimate of value for a reﬁnance transaction, or
the same amount as the Sales Contract Price for a purchase transaction.
For all value acceptance oﬀers that are exercised, the lender remains responsible for the accuracy and
completeness of all data that pertains to the property and project (if applicable) that is submitted to DU (other
than the property value) and must warrant that the property is adequately insured.
The following table describes the representations and warranties the lender must make ("Yes") if they exercise
a value acceptance or value acceptance + property data oﬀer. The table also identiﬁes the representations and
warranties the lender is not responsible for ("No").
                               Representations and Warranties Related to...
 
Value and
marketability
Physical property
characteristics
Property eligibility
including condition
Condition with a recent
disaster
Value acceptance No No No Yes
Value acceptance + property
data
No Yes Yes* Yes
*Includes warranty that the property is safe, sound, and structurally secure.
Fannie Mae does not warrant that the estimated value provided by the lender is the actual value of the subject
property. The lender may not make any statements to any third party (including the borrower) that Fannie Mae
performed any kind of appraisal or valuation of the property.
Note: See B2-3-01, General Property Eligibility for property eligibility requirements and  B2-3-05,
Properties Aﬀected by a Disaster for requirements on recent disaster.
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-06 June 03, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
Published June 3, 2026
30
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
 
A2-2-07, Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties (08/02/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the life-of-loan representations and warranties that lenders are
responsible for, including:
Overview
Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Fannie Mae Charter Act Matters
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Misstatements, Misrepresentations, and Omissions
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Data Inaccuracies
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Clear Title/First-Lien Enforceability
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Compliance with Laws and Responsible Lending Practices
Life-of-Loan Exclusions: Unacceptable Mortgage Products
Overview
In order to sell loans to Fannie Mae or deliver pools of loans to Fannie Mae for MBS, the lender makes
representations and warranties as to certain facts and circumstances concerning the lender and the mortgage
loans it is selling or delivering. Fannie Mae provides lenders with relief from enforcement for breaches of certain
underwriting and eligibility representations and warranties for loans meeting the requirements set forth in
A2-3.2-02, Enforcement Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting
and Eligibility (“enforcement relief”). No enforcement relief is available for certain “life-of-loan” representations
and warranties.
Life-of-Loan Representations and Warranties
A lender is not relieved from the enforcement of breaches of its representations and warranties on any
mortgage loan, including eligible mortgage loans, with respect to the following matters even if those matters
are addressed in Subparts B1 through B5 of the Selling Guide (the subparts that pertain to underwriting and
eligibility). With respect to each mortgage loan, a lender remains responsible throughout the life of that loan for
representations and warranties related to the following, as more fully described below:
Fannie Mae Charter Act Matters;