SECTION: A2-4.1-04
TITLE: Notarization Standards
EFFECTIVE: 06/02/2021
PAGES: 98-102
---
Published June 3, 2026
80
Under no circumstances may a borrower be required to use electronic records and electronic signatures. For a
borrower who chooses not to use electronic records and electronic signatures, the seller/servicer must continue
to provide and accept all such documents on paper.
When the servicer issues any disclosure electronically, the individual mortgage loan ﬁle also must include
evidence of:
any required disclosures made before obtaining the borrower’s consent,
the borrower’s consent to receiving subsequent disclosure electronically, and
evidence of how the servicer “reasonably demonstrated” the borrower’s ability to receive the disclosures
for which the consent was provided.
The servicer must not electronically issue a notice of default, acceleration, repossession, foreclosure, eviction or
the right to cure to a borrower.
The seller/servicer is required to retain a copy of an electronically executed sales contract, if applicable.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-05 May 06, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-11 December 13, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-08 September 07, 2022
Announcement SEL- 2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Published June 3, 2026
81
A2-4.1-04, Notarization Standards (06/02/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on notarization standards, including:
Standards for Notarization
International Notarization and Apostille Process
Law of Location of the Mortgaged Property
Requirements in the Selling Guide or Servicing Guide
Audio-visual Aided Remote Ink-Signed Notarization
Minimum Standards for Audio-visual Methods
Standards for Notarization
Certain loan documents and instruments may require notarization under applicable laws to allow for
either recognition, enforcement, or recordation of the loan document or instrument.  Except as
otherwise permitted in this Guide, and subject to all applicable legal requirements imposed by the
state where the real property is located, all loan documents and instruments must be notarized in
accordance with and legally valid under the laws and regulations of the state in which the notarization
is performed at the time it was performed in order to be eligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
In certain situations, federal laws and regulations permit duly authorized oﬃcials of the U.S.
Department of State and the U.S. Department of Defense to eﬀect notarial acts in the performance of
their duties. Subject to any applicable legal requirements imposed by the state where the real
property is located, such notarization by these authorized oﬃcials is eligible on the same basis as that
performed in accordance with state law.
International Notarization and Apostille Process
Subject to any applicable legal requirements imposed by the state where the real property is located, any
international notarization not performed by a duly authorized oﬃcial of the U.S. is eligible provided it
is in accordance with and legally valid under the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdiction
in which the notarization is performed at the time it was performed, or
contains an apostille certiﬁcation from a competent authority, as recognized by the U.S.
Department of State.
Law of Location of the Mortgaged Property
If the law of the state where the real property is located requires notarization, such notarization must
comply with such state’s laws and regulations, or
qualify for recognition under such state’s laws. 
Published June 3, 2026
82
Requirements in the Selling Guide or Servicing Guide
In order for a loan to be eligible for sale to Fannie Mae and where notarization is not explicitly
required by applicable law, but only by a requirement in the Selling Guide or Servicing Guide, all loan
documents and instruments must have notarization eﬀected by any such notarial method as
permitted or recognized as valid by
the law of the state where the real property is located, or
federal law or the law of the state where the notary is registered and acting under applicable notarial
authority and requirements of such jurisdiction.
Note: Nothing in this topic is meant to supersede the existing policies in this Guide with
respect to electronic notarization and remote online notarization.  See  A2-4.1-03, Electronic
Records, Signatures, and Transactions for additional information. 
Audio-visual Aided Remote Ink-Signed Notarization
A remote ink-signed notarization (RIN) is an audio-visual aided ink-signed method of notarization of
paper documents, where the borrower authentication and signature witnessing are accomplished by:
the notary and principal’s use of real-time audio-visual conferencing technology,
the signatures are ink-signed, and
the notarial seal is applied manually to the applicable documents.
Lenders may allow for the use of real-time audio-video technology to satisfy the physical presence
requirements, or where there are no physical presence requirements, under applicable law for
notarial acts.
The following requirements apply to remote ink-signed notarization:
The notarization has been expressly authorized under applicable law.
The notarization is performed in accordance with and is legally valid under the laws and regulations of
the state in which the notarization is performed, at the time it was performed.
The borrower or person whose signature is being notarized and the notary are physically located in the
state where the notarial act is performed.
The audio-visual method used for the remote ink-signed notarization must meet the minimum standards
described below.
All loans delivered to Fannie Mae that have been closed using audio-visual aided ink-signed notarization must
be delivered with special feature code (SFC) 920 in addition to any other special feature codes that may apply.
Published June 3, 2026
83
Minimum Standards for Audio-visual Methods
The audio-visual method used for RIN must include the following minimum standards.
Criteria Minimum Standards
Documentation or
authentication
It must include a review of
• two forms of government-issued photo ID that have a signature via two-way
audio-video technology and capture of such photo ID[s] via a photocopy or
other electronic image; or
• two-factor identity authentication, using a combination of at least two
of the following factors:
    ⚬ remote presentation of a government-issued photo ID that has a
signature,
    ⚬ credential analysis, or
    ⚬ identity-prooﬁng (that is, knowledge-based authentication).
System measures
The system must
• prevent interference with authenticity, integrity, and security of the portions
of the notarial ceremony that are conducted via the audio-video technology,
and
• protect the electronic record and backup record from unauthorized use.
Recording capability
It must have the ability to record the portion of the notarial ceremony
conducted via the audio-video technology with storage for the minimum
period required by applicable law, or if no period is speciﬁed in the applicable
law, for 10 years.
Additional Requirements:
The lender must maintain, or cause to be retained, the recording of the portions of the notarial
ceremony conducted via the audio-video technology for the greater of 10 years or the minimum period
required by applicable law, in accordance with the requirements above.
The mortgage loan may not be a Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan.
If the loan document is required to be recorded, then the county recorder in the state and county where
the property is located must accept the document for recording.
If the document is a security instrument or an amendment to a security instrument, the audio-visual
aided remote ink-signed notarization must comply with the title requirements in B7-2-04, Special Title
Insurance Coverage Considerations  and the title insurance company may not take any exception for
Published June 3, 2026
84
the audio-visual aided remote ink-signed notarization.
All selling representations and warranties continue to apply, including those related to
clear title and ﬁrst lien enforceability,
compliance with laws and responsible lending practices, and
requirements regarding title insurance, including those in  B7-2-04, Special Title Insurance Coverage
Considerations
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
 
Chapter A2-5, Fannie Mae Trade Name and Trademarks
Introduction
This chapter contains information on the license Fannie Mae grants to an approved lender to use and display
Fannie Mae Marks, limitations on an approved lender’s use of Fannie Mae Marks, and termination of a lender’s
rights to use Fannie Mae Marks.
A2-5-01, Fannie Mae Trade Name and Trademarks (08/29/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the use of the Fannie Mae trade name and trademarks, including:
General Requirements
License to Use Fannie Mae Marks
General Requirements
Fannie Mae owns and uses the Fannie Mae trademark, the Fannie Mae logo, the Federal National Mortgage