SECTION: A2-4.1-03
TITLE: Electronic Records, Signatures, and Transactions
EFFECTIVE: 05/06/2026
PAGES: 89-98
---
Published June 3, 2026
71
 
A2-4.1-03, Electronic Records, Signatures, and Transactions
(05/06/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on electronic records, including:
Electronic Records
Electronic Signatures
Electronic Notarizations
Remote Online Notarizations
Electronic Transactions with Fannie Mae
Electronic Transactions with Third Parties
Electronic Records
All documents used to originate, service or modify a loan, may be generated, signed, processed, stored or
transmitted electronically, provided they are capable of reproduction in paper format except:
the promissory note and any related addenda (unless the seller has received special approval to deliver
electronic notes (eNotes));
any unrecorded ink-signed originals of documents that modify or supplement the security instrument;
and
assignments for MERS-registered loans when MERS is not named as nominee.
The following table describes Fannie Mae’s requirements for electronic records. An electronic record is a
contract or other record that is created, generated, sent, communicated, received, or stored by electronic
means. A record is information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other
medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
Published June 3, 2026
72
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC RECORDS
Topic Description
Permitted format, transmission method and
storage protocol
• Any appropriate electronic format or transmission
method for an electronic record other than audio or
video recording may be used (except to the extent
permitted in connection with electronic
notarizations, remote online notarizations, and audio-
visual aided remote ink-signed notarizations (RIN)). See 
A2-4.1-04, Notarization Standards  for additional
information.
• Sellers and servicers may use any technology other
than audio or video recording for storing electronic
records, as long as the electronic records are securely
stored and remain accessible by all persons entitled to
access them for as long as access is required.
• Any loan ﬁle composed of electronic records must be
clearly identiﬁed by logical association with Fannie Mae’s
loan number.
• If a seller/servicer chooses to store permitted
documents in a format other than paper, it must provide
any prospective transferee servicer with information
about the methods it uses for document and records
storage. If the transferee servicer uses a diﬀerent
storage method, the transferor servicer must work with
the transferee servicer to convert the documents and
records to a format that is compatible with the
transferee servicer’s storage methods.
Compliance with ESIGN, UETA, and applicable
laws
All electronic records and systems used to generate,
process, store or transmit electronic records must
comply with
• the federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National
Commerce Act (ESIGN);
• the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (UETA)
adopted by the state in which the subject property is
located; if applicable, and
• all other applicable federal and state laws.
Published June 3, 2026
73
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC RECORDS
Topic Description
Enforceability and Accuracy
All electronic records must be valid and enforceable and
accurately reﬂect all information and formatting (where
the formatting is prescribed by law or material to
interpretation of the record) that was in the record as it
was presented to intended beneﬁciaries and signers.
System Requirements
All systems generating or storing electronic records
must:
• generate or maintain them as valid and enforceable
records,
• be suﬃciently secure to preserve the integrity and
authenticity of the records, and
• protect against loss of unauthorized access to records.
See below for additional system requirements that apply
to remote online notarizations.
Published June 3, 2026
74
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC RECORDS
Topic Description
Conversion of documents
Sellers/servicers may convert a paper document to an
electronic record for storage purposes if it is not one of
the documents required to be maintained in its original
paper form. Sellers/servicers may destroy the paper
document. Similarly, a seller/servicer may convert an
electronic record to a paper document for storage
purposes or to provide loan modiﬁcations to document
custodians that are not electronically enabled.
• When documents are converted to an alternative
format, the legibility and integrity of the information and
formatting, including indications of alterations (such as
erasures and white-outs), in the original document must
be preserved.
• If servicing of a loan is transferred, the servicer must
securely transfer all relevant electronic records to the
new servicer, along with all information verifying the
authenticity, validity and enforceability of the records
and any associated signatures.
• Sellers/servicers must retain documentation that
explains the process used to convert paper-based
records to electronic formats and specify the date of
conversion, method of conversion, and disposition of the
original paper records.
For purposes of the preceding table, “electronic records” do not include eNotes, and paper notes may not be
converted into eNotes. See  B8-8-02, Requirements for Creating, Closing, and Correcting eNotes for additional
information regarding electronic records.
Electronic Signatures
Sellers/servicers may use any form of electronic signature on an electronic record that is valid under applicable
law (except that audio and video recordings cannot be used as the electronic signature), as long as the
signature is attached to or logically associated with the record intended to be signed. From time to time, Fannie
Mae may require a seller/servicer to use a speciﬁc signature format for a particular electronic record or type of
record.
The following table describes Fannie Mae’s requirements for electronic signatures.
Published June 3, 2026
75
ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE REQUIREMENTS
Topic Description
Compliance with ESIGN, UETA, and applicable
laws
All electronic signatures, electronic signature systems,
and software must comply with, and be enforceable
under
• ESIGN and UETA adopted by the state in which the
signature is applied, and
• all other applicable federal and state laws.
Attribution and Evidence
All electronic signatures must be attributable to an
identiﬁed signer.
When a record is electronically signed, the seller/servicer
must retain, for each electronic signature, evidence of
the following:
• the authenticated identity of the signer and, if
applicable, related entity;
• attribution of the signature to the purported signer;
• the signer’s express or implied agreement to use an
electronic signature;
• date of the signature; and
• the method (and, if applicable, eSign vendor) by which
the signature was made.
For electronically-signed records for loans purchased or
securitized by Fannie Mae, this evidence and
documentation must be suﬃcient to enable Fannie Mae
to conduct a thorough quality control review of the loan.
For example, the evidence of the borrower’s signature
with respect to a veriﬁcation of employment must allow
Fannie Mae the ability to request and receive a
reveriﬁcation of the information from the borrower’s
employer.
 
See  B8-8-01, General Information on eMortgages for information about electronic signature requirements for
eMortgage transactions.
Electronic Notarizations
Fannie Mae accepts delivery and servicing of loans with electronic documents, including security instruments or
Published June 3, 2026
76
mortgage loan modiﬁcation agreements that have been electronically notarized, either in person or remotely
using real-time, two-way audio/video communication. Electronic notarizations (including remote online
notarizations) may be used with eMortgage transactions as long as the notarization is
performed in accordance with and is legally valid under the laws and regulations of the state in which the
notarization is performed at the time it was performed; and
in compliance with the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, as adopted in such state, and the Electronic
Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act.
A lender may not require a borrower to use remote notarization and must have other notary options available
for borrowers upon request.
Remote Online Notarizations
A remote online notarization (RON) is an electronic notarization in which the person whose signature is being
notarized and the notary are in diﬀerent physical locations and communicate using real-time, two-way audio-
visual technology, the signatures are provided electronically, and the notarial seal is applied electronically.
In addition to the above requirements, the following requirements apply to RON:
✓ Requirements
 
The system used to perform RON must meet the following minimum standards:
• Support at least one of the following methods for conﬁrming the borrower's identity, allowing
the notary to perform its legal duty:
    ⚬ Identiﬁcation through non-technical means, as permitted by applicable laws, rules and
regulations (for example, the notary's personal knowledge of the borrower or a credible witness
as identiﬁed through technical means described below)
    ⚬ Identiﬁcation through technical means, which must include:
        ▪ Identity validation: the capture of one or more images of the borrower's government-
issued identiﬁcation credential and a validation of the authenticity of the credential; and
        ▪ Identity veriﬁcation: a process to verify that the borrower matches the validated identity
(for example, knowledge-based authentication).
• Compliance with the MISMO RON Standards Version 2.0, except for the requirements in the
Identiﬁcation & Authentication section*.
*Note: For this requirement, compliance must be with the MISMO RON Standards Version 2.0
(Draft) published for public comment in July 2025, as subsequently amended, and until the ﬁnal
MISMO RON Standards Version 2.0 are published. Upon publication of the ﬁnal standards, the
system used to perform RON must comply with the ﬁnal standards in their entirety, including any
revisions or renumbered sections that amend or supersede the draft requirements. The
identiﬁcation and authentication requirements in the ﬁnal MISMO RON Standards Version 2.0 will
supersede the identiﬁcation requirements in this section. 
Published June 3, 2026
77
✓ Requirements
 The lender must store the tamper-sealed audit trail produced by the RON system until such time
that it can provide the audit trail to the servicer for inclusion in the individual mortgage loan ﬁle.
 
The notary public must be licensed and physically located in the state in which the notarial act is
performed and, where required by law or regulation, is speciﬁcally licensed to perform electronic
notarizations.
 If the loan document is required to be recorded, then the county recorder in the state and county
where the property is located must accept the remotely notarized document for recording.
 If the remotely notarized document is a security instrument or amendment to the security
instrument, the loan must be delivered with the Remote Notarization Indicator ﬂag.
 
If the remotely notarized document is a security instrument or an amendment to a security
instrument, the RON must comply with the title requirements in 
B7-2-04, Special Title Insurance Coverage Considerations and the title insurance company may
not take any exception with respect to any element of the loan being remotely notarized.
 The mortgage loan is not a Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan.
All selling representations and warranties continue to apply, including those related to
clear title and ﬁrst lien enforceability;
compliance with laws and responsible lending practices, and
requirements regarding title insurance, including the requirements in B7-2-04, Special Title Insurance
Coverage Considerations.
In addition to the above requirements, the subject property must be in a state in the following table:
LIST OF STATES
Alabama Florida Maine New
Hampshire Pennsylvania Washington
Alaska Hawaii Maryland New Jersey Rhode Island West Virginia
Arizona Idaho Massachusetts New Mexico South
Carolina Wisconsin
Published June 3, 2026
78
LIST OF STATES
Arkansas Illinois Michigan New York South Dakota Wyoming
*California Indiana Minnesota North
Carolina Tennessee  
Colorado Iowa Missouri North Dakota Texas  
Connecticut Kansas Montana Ohio Utah  
Delaware Kentucky Nebraska Oklahoma Vermont  
District of
Columbia Louisiana Nevada Oregon Virginia  
*For a subject property located in California, a remote online notarization may be taken by a notary outside of
the State of California in accordance with the laws of the state in which the notarial act was performed.
However, a California notary may take a remote online notarization for a subject property located in California
only upon and after the trigger provision of the law that permits the use of remote online notarization by
California notaries is activated, and only in compliance with that law.
If the subject property is not in a state listed above, loan documents notarized using remote online notarization
will be permitted if the state
adopts a law that expressly permits the use of remote online notarization, or
accepts (either through state law or through the application of an express federal law) remote online
notarizations performed out-of-state in accordance with the laws of the state in which the notarial act is
performed.
Electronic Transactions with Fannie Mae
Electronic records may be delivered and electronic signatures may be provided by the seller, servicer, or Fannie
Mae (or by a third party, when one is involved) as part of a transaction between them.
Every seller/servicer consents to the use of electronic records and signatures in its transactions with Fannie Mae
and intends to be bound by the electronic signatures of its representatives as if they were ink signatures on
paper.
The following table describes Fannie Mae’s requirements for electronic transactions with Fannie Mae.
Published June 3, 2026
79
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS WITH FANNIE MAE
Topic Description
Transaction-speciﬁc Requirements
If Fannie Mae requires the seller/servicer to conduct one
or more electronic transactions, or a particular kind of
transaction, in a particular way (e.g., speciﬁc format,
signature process or method of delivery), the
seller/servicer must conduct the transaction(s)
accordingly. However, the seller/servicer is bound by the
electronic transaction(s) even if not conducted in an
authorized manner.
Responsibilities of Sellers/Servicers
• The seller/servicer is responsible for all Fannie Mae
Losses resulting from its failure or the failure of its
technology provider to comply with the requirements of
this Guide in generating, signing, processing, storing or
transmitting electronic records and electronic signatures.
• Fannie Mae is authorized to rely conclusively on the
accuracy, authenticity, integrity, and validity of electronic
records and electronic signatures the seller/servicer
transmits to Fannie Mae.
Time of Receipt
• Unless Fannie Mae speciﬁes otherwise, the rules in
Section 15 of UETA will determine whether an electronic
record has been sent and received. However, an
electronic record will not be considered to have been
received by Fannie Mae until it is able to access it during
its regular business hours.
• Fannie Mae will not be responsible for the failure of an
electronic record to be timely or accurately transmitted
due to any event beyond Fannie Mae’s control or any
event that could not be reasonably foreseen at the time
of the transmission.
Electronic Transactions with Third Parties
When a seller/servicer electronically engages in a mortgage transaction with a borrower, the seller and the
servicer must fulﬁll all requirements of Section 101(c) of ESIGN to create a binding electronic record or a binding
electronic signature with a consumer. Each seller/servicer must retain evidence of its compliance with this
requirement.
Published June 3, 2026
80
Under no circumstances may a borrower be required to use electronic records and electronic signatures. For a
borrower who chooses not to use electronic records and electronic signatures, the seller/servicer must continue
to provide and accept all such documents on paper.
When the servicer issues any disclosure electronically, the individual mortgage loan ﬁle also must include
evidence of:
any required disclosures made before obtaining the borrower’s consent,
the borrower’s consent to receiving subsequent disclosure electronically, and
evidence of how the servicer “reasonably demonstrated” the borrower’s ability to receive the disclosures
for which the consent was provided.
The servicer must not electronically issue a notice of default, acceleration, repossession, foreclosure, eviction or
the right to cure to a borrower.
The seller/servicer is required to retain a copy of an electronically executed sales contract, if applicable.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-05 May 06, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-11 December 13, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-08 September 07, 2022
Announcement SEL- 2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 