SECTION: A3-1-01
TITLE: Fannie Mae’s Technology Products
EFFECTIVE: 10/06/2021
PAGES: 106-107
---
Published June 3, 2026
88
Chapter A3-1, Fannie Mae’s Technology Products
Introduction
This chapter includes information on the initial steps a lender must take to do business with Fannie Mae with
respect to technology applications and operational setup.
A3-1-01, Fannie Mae’s Technology Products (10/06/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information on Fannie Mae’s technology products, including:
System Requirements
Registering for an Application
Operational Setup
System Requirements
Fannie Mae’s technology solutions require a standard hardware and software conﬁguration. To ensure that
Fannie Mae’s technology tools perform at or above the expected levels as determined by Fannie Mae’s
performance baseline testing, the lender may need to upgrade its current computer conﬁguration. Review the
equipment conﬁgurations presented in Technology Requirements to ensure that you meet or exceed them.
Note: This information does not apply to integration solutions. See Technology Integration for
information about lender integration solutions.
Registering for an Application
To become an approved user of any of Fannie Mae’s single-family technology applications, lenders should visit
the Technology Manager page for instructions in how to register for an application. Sellers/servicers must
execute a Software Subscription Agreement to obtain access to any of Fannie Mae’s technology applications.
See Software Subscription Agreement in the Consolidated Technology Guide, for more information.
Operational Setup
Fannie Mae provides assistance to all newly approved lenders to ensure that they are set up properly to conduct
business with Fannie Mae. Once a lender is approved as a seller or servicer, a senior Fannie Mae marketing
consultant contacts the lender to provide information about establishing bank accounts, getting started with
Fannie Mae technology, and taking advantage of relevant training.
Published June 3, 2026
89
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-09 October 06, 2021
Announcement-SEL-2018-04 May 01, 2018
 
Chapter A3-2, Compliance With Requirements and Laws
Introduction
This chapter describes an approved lender’s obligation to comply with various laws related to mortgage lending
and servicing, and to adhere to responsible lending practices when originating mortgage loans for delivery to
Fannie Mae.
A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on compliance with laws, including:
General Obligations
Additional Requirements Related to Compliance with Laws
Reporting Requirements
Requirements Related to Speciﬁc Laws and Other Fannie Mae Requirements
Compliance with Fannie Mae Cybersecurity Incident Requirements
General Obligations
The seller/servicer (any subservicer or third-party originator it uses) and any licensee of Fannie Mae technology
must:
comply with, all federal, state, and local laws (e.g., statutes, regulations, ordinances, directives, codes,
administrative rules and orders that have the eﬀect of law, and judicial rulings and opinions) that apply
to: