SECTION: A3-2-02
TITLE: Responsible Lending Practices
EFFECTIVE: 09/01/2021
PAGES: 119-122
---
Published June 3, 2026
101
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-06 July 06, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-06 July 03, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
A3-2-02, Responsible Lending Practices (09/01/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on responsible lending practices, including:
Overview
Responsible Lending Policies
Underwriting Standards
Overview
Each seller/servicer must use prudent, sound, and responsible business practices in its marketing and
origination eﬀorts. The seller/servicer’s operating policies and procedures must provide an eﬀective means of
ensuring responsible lending practices, and identifying and avoiding predatory lending practices.
Sellers/servicers must update their business practices as necessary to ensure responsible lending practices that
are in line with current market conditions. They must have policies and procedures, including quality control
procedures, to ensure that loans delivered to Fannie Mae comply with these responsible lending requirements.
For quality control requirements, see Part D, Ensuring Quality Control (QC).
Responsible Lending Policies
Published June 3, 2026
102
Sellers must comply with the responsible lending practices described in the following table.
Topic Policy
Steering
Sellers must:
• seek to oﬀer the lowest-cost product with the lowest-risk loan terms for which
they qualify,
• not steer borrowers toward a particular loan program to qualify the borrower
for a loan in an eﬀort to misrepresent the borrower’s true credit or income
related qualiﬁcations, and
• ensure their loan originator compensation practices comply with the loan
originator compensation provisions of the TILA and Regulation Z, and that loan
originators comply with these requirements when presenting loan options to
consumers.
HOEPA Loans
The following loans are ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae:
• a loan that is subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of
1994 as described in Section 32 of Regulation Z (HOEPA); and
• a loan that is part of a larger transaction that is structured in a manner
intended to circumvent the requirements of HOEPA and Section 32 of Regulation
Z.
State Higher-Priced
Loans
Certain state-deﬁned higher-priced loans are ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae,
regardless of whether the seller is subject to such state requirements as a
matter of law. Any state higher-priced loan described in B2-1.5-02, Loan
Eligibility, is ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
Single Premium Credit
Insurance
Sellers may not require the borrower to purchase, and no proceeds of the loan
may be used to purchase, single premium credit insurance (e.g., life, disability,
accident, unemployment, or health insurance) or a single fee debt cancellation
agreement.
Prepayment Penalties Loans subject to prepayment penalties are ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
Arbitration A loan that was originated on or after October 31, 2004, and is subject to
mandatory arbitration is ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
Published June 3, 2026
103
Topic Policy
Interagency Guidance
on Nontraditional
Mortgage Product
Risks
A loan that has a loan application date on or after September 13, 2007, and that
is a “nontraditional loan” within the meaning of the Interagency Guidance on
Nontraditional Mortgage Product Risks, 71 Fed. Reg. 58609 (Oct. 4, 2006), must
comply in all material respects with such guidance, regardless of whether the
lender is subject to the guidance as a matter of law.
Statement on
Subprime Mortgage
Lending (Subprime
Statement)
An adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loan that has a residential loan application
date on or after September 13, 2007, must comply in all material respects with
the Statement on Subprime Mortgage Lending, 72 Fed. Reg. 37569 (July 10,
2007), regardless of whether the lender is subject to such statement as a matter
of law.
Ability to Repay Sellers must comply with all applicable requirements. See  B2-1.5-02, Loan
Eligibility, for additional information.
 
Underwriting Standards
Every loan sold to Fannie Mae must be underwritten in order to establish that the borrower has the ability,
willingness, and capacity to repay the debt. Sellers must have adequate internal controls and processes in place
to evaluate borrower income and liabilities.
The requirements in the following table apply to all loans sold to Fannie Mae.
✓ The seller must...
 analyze a borrower’s repayment capacity, including an evaluation of the borrower’s capacity to
repay the debt by its ﬁnal maturity, assuming a fully amortizing repayment schedule.
 maintain written policies and procedures for how it takes into account income or assets, debt
obligations, alimony, child support, and monthly DTI ratio in its ability to repay determination.
Published June 3, 2026
104
✓ The seller must...
 
if risk-layering is involved:
• demonstrate the existence of eﬀective compensating factors that support the seller’s
underwriting decision and borrower’s repayment capacity,
• have clear policies governing the use of risk-layering features,
• not rely solely on one factor to compensate for the risk, but instead must consider a
combination of compensating factors.
 verify and document the borrower’s income (both source and amount), assets, and liabilities
used in the underwriting decision, except as otherwise expressly provided in the Selling Guide.
 
analyze the borrower’s DTI, including
• total monthly housing-related payments, (principal, interest, taxes, insurance, and other
property-related assessments); and
• long-term and signiﬁcant short-term monthly debts
 
ensure the ﬁnal loan application signed by the borrower at closing includes all income and debts
of the borrower that were veriﬁed, disclosed, or identiﬁed during the mortgage process and
considered by the lender in the qualiﬁcation for the loan, except as otherwise expressly provided
in the Selling Guide.
A lender may be required to repurchase a loan that is in breach of the requirements of this topic at any time
notwithstanding that the loan is otherwise eligible for relief from enforcement for breaches of certain
underwriting and eligibility representations and warranties in accordance with A2-3.2-02, Enforcement Relief for
Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and Eligibility
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
 
Chapter A3-3, Third-Party Lending Functions and Servicing