SECTION: A3-2-01
TITLE: Compliance With Laws
EFFECTIVE: 12/10/2025
PAGES: 107-119
---
Published June 3, 2026
89
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-09 October 06, 2021
Announcement-SEL-2018-04 May 01, 2018
 
Chapter A3-2, Compliance With Requirements and Laws
Introduction
This chapter describes an approved lender’s obligation to comply with various laws related to mortgage lending
and servicing, and to adhere to responsible lending practices when originating mortgage loans for delivery to
Fannie Mae.
A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on compliance with laws, including:
General Obligations
Additional Requirements Related to Compliance with Laws
Reporting Requirements
Requirements Related to Speciﬁc Laws and Other Fannie Mae Requirements
Compliance with Fannie Mae Cybersecurity Incident Requirements
General Obligations
The seller/servicer (any subservicer or third-party originator it uses) and any licensee of Fannie Mae technology
must:
comply with, all federal, state, and local laws (e.g., statutes, regulations, ordinances, directives, codes,
administrative rules and orders that have the eﬀect of law, and judicial rulings and opinions) that apply
to:
Published June 3, 2026
90
any of its origination, selling, or servicing practices, including laws and regulations on consumer
credit, equal credit opportunity and truth-in-lending, and borrower privacy;
use of Fannie Mae licensed technology; and
other business practices that may have a material eﬀect on Fannie Mae; 
ensure appraisals conform to the Appraiser Independence Requirements; and B4-1.1-04, Unacceptable
Appraisal Practices; and
ensure property data collections conform to the Property Data Collector Independence Requirements.
Additional Requirements Related to Compliance with Laws
The table below describes additional requirements related to a seller/servicer’s obligation regarding compliance
with applicable laws.
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
Topic Description
Obligation to monitor
A seller/servicer must
• establish appropriate policies and procedures for monitoring (and
monitor) applicable legal developments,
• demonstrate it has complied with applicable laws and regulations upon
Fannie Mae’s request,
• advise its Fannie Mae customer account team if an applicable law or
regulation conﬂicts with Fannie Mae’s requirements, and
• establish policies and procedures to monitor appraisals for prohibited
language to eliminate discriminatory practices and appraisals bias.
Published June 3, 2026
91
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
Topic Description
Remedy for violations
Fannie Mae may enforce a remedy for all seller/servicer violations of
applicable laws and regulations that may have a material eﬀect on Fannie
Mae.
For whole loans acquired on or after November 20, 2014 and for
loans delivered into MBS with pool issue dates on and after
December 1, 2014.
Fannie Mae considers the following to be signiﬁcant defects and may
require a repurchase for a breach of the seller/servicer’s representation
and warranty regarding compliance with laws when:
• the seller/servicer’s failure to comply could be expected to either
    ⚬ impair Fannie Mae’s or its servicer’s ability to enforce the note or
mortgage, or
    ⚬ impose assignee liability on Fannie Mae; or
• a court or regulatory authority has found the loan to be in violation, or
Fannie Mae has made a ﬁnding based on the facts available to it that a
violation may have occurred.
• A violation may involve any one of the following:
    ⚬ laws administered or regulations implemented by the Department of
the Treasury’s Oﬃce of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC);
    ⚬ the Fair Housing Act or related regulations;
    ⚬ the anti-discrimination provisions of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act
or related regulations;
    ⚬ federal or state prohibitions on unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or
practices (UDAAP); or
    ⚬ the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or regulations thereunder.
Published June 3, 2026
92
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
Topic Description
Remedy for UDAAP and
ability to repay violations
With respect to UDAAP, Fannie Mae will consider published federal and
state announcements of interpretations as well as all published judicial
and administrative decisions and will not enforce a repurchase if:
• the seller/servicer cures the matter by remediation to the injured party;
or
• after the third anniversary of the acquisition (or MBS pool issue date) of
a loan (unless the seller/servicer self-reports), a federal or state
enforcement authority has indicated, asserted, or claimed that such
practice violates (or may) violate UDAAP, or a federal or state court has
held that a speciﬁc practice violates UDAAP.
Fannie Mae will not make legal a determination of whether a loan
complies with or is exempt from TILA, ATR, or the Revised Qualiﬁed
Mortgage Rule, or whether a lender's designation of the status of a loan is
correct except as required in judicial or regulatory proceedings in which
Fannie Mae is a party. 
For noncompliance with the ability to repay (ATR) requirements in the
TILA and its implementing regulations, which could impose assignee
liability on Fannie Mae, Fannie Mae will not issue a repurchase demand
on such grounds unless a court, regulator, or other authoritative body
concludes that a speciﬁc loan did not comply with ATR, including the
Qualiﬁed Mortgage Rule.
Published June 3, 2026
93
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS
Topic Description
Repurchase demands for
compliance with laws
violations
A repurchase demand based on compliance with laws violation will
include supporting facts and ﬁndings made by Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae’s determination that a violation has occurred must be
consistent with the facts provided by the seller/servicer and any other
information obtained by Fannie Mae as part of its evaluation of the
situation.
If Fannie Mae issues a repurchase demand involving a failure to comply
with laws when there is pending litigation underway for that same issue,
or when a government agency with authority to make a determination
regarding the issue has publicly stated that it is reviewing the issue, the
seller/servicer is not required to repurchase the loan until 30 days after
the litigation is
• dismissed,
• settled, or
• concluded at trial in an adjudication, or
• the government agency has made a ﬁnal determination (collectively,
the “Resolution”).
After the Resolution, the seller/servicer may request that Fannie Mae
review the appropriateness of the repurchase demand in light of the
Resolution. Fannie Mae will withdraw the repurchase demand where
appropriate.
A seller/servicer may be required to repurchase a loan that is in breach of the requirements of this topic at any
time despite the fact that the loan is otherwise eligible for enforcement relief for breaches of certain
underwriting and eligibility representations and warranties in accordance with the Selling Guide.
Reporting Requirements
The seller/servicer must notify Fannie Mae if, after conducting due diligence, it determines that a breach of a
selling warranty related to compliance with laws has likely occurred. The seller/servicer’s notiﬁcation
responsibilities depend on how many loans are aﬀected and whether the breach could warrant a repurchase
demand based on the criteria described above.
Reporting Category 1
The seller/servicer must notify Fannie Mae if both of the following conditions occur:
the number of loans aﬀected by the same potential breach exceeds the lesser of 500 loans or 1% of the
total number of loans delivered to Fannie Mae in the prior year, and
all potentially aﬀected loans were delivered to Fannie Mae within the same calendar quarter.
Published June 3, 2026
94
The notiﬁcation is required within 60 days of the later of:
the end of the calendar quarter in which such loans were delivered, or
discovery of the potential breach.
The seller/servicer must report these loans using the self-report functionality in  Loan Quality Connect.
Note: If the calculation described above results in fewer than ﬁve potentially aﬀected loans, then the
seller/servicer does not need to notify Fannie Mae.
Reporting Category 2
The following reporting requirements apply when:
the potential breach could warrant a repurchase demand, or
the number of loans aﬀected by the same type of potential breach delivered in the same calendar
quarter does not exceed the lesser of 500 loans or 1% of the total number of loans delivered to Fannie
Mae in the prior year.
Reporting Requirements
If... Then...
the breach could warrant a repurchase demand and
has not been remedied or will not be remedied
within 60 days,
the seller/servicer must notify Fannie Mae within
60 days by using the self-report functionality in
Loan Quality Connect.
the breach could warrant a repurchase demand and
has been remedied or will be remedied within 60
days,
the seller/servicer does not need to notify Fannie
Mae.
the breach would not warrant a repurchase
demand,
the seller/servicer does not need to notify Fannie
Mae.
Examples:
Scenario 1: A lender identiﬁes a repeated potential breach related to compliance with laws where a
repurchase demand is not warranted.
The lender determines June 1 it may have failed to provide a property valuation when required under the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act. This impacted 600 loans that were delivered to Fannie Mae between January 1 and
March 31. The lender must report the potential breach to Fannie Mae within 60 days of June 1. In this scenario,
the number of loans impacted exceeded 500 loans and the loans were delivered within the same quarter.
Scenario 2: A lender that delivered 70,000 loans to Fannie Mae the prior year identiﬁes a repeated
potential breach related to compliance with laws where a repurchase demand is not warranted.
Published June 3, 2026
95
The lender determines August 15 it may have failed to provide a property valuation when required under the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act. This impacted 200 loans that were delivered to Fannie Mae between January 1 and
March 31, and 400 loans that were delivered to Fannie Mae between April 1 and June 30. The lender will not be
required to report the potential breach for either quarter, as the number of loans impacted in each quarter did
not exceed 500 loans. In this scenario, 500 loans is less than 700 loans (1% of prior year deliveries).
Scenario 3: A lender identiﬁes a single loan impacted by a potential breach for which a repurchase
demand is a potential remedy.
The lender may have violated the Fair Housing Act. The lender must report the breach to Fannie Mae within 60
days of determination of the potential breach, unless it determines the non-compliance has been remedied or
will be remedied within 60 days in accordance with applicable law.
Requirements Related to Speciﬁc Laws and Other Fannie Mae Requirements
Following is a table of additional requirements related to speciﬁc laws and other Fannie Mae requirements.
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
IRS Reporting Requirements
must report to the IRS as required by Part of this Guide, Part C of
the Servicing Guide, and in accordance with the instructions of
the Internal Revenue Service.
Published June 3, 2026
96
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
Department of Treasury Oﬃce of
Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)
Regulations
• must establish and maintain an eﬀective OFAC compliance
program;
• must report all instances of penalties (civil or criminal) or
enforcement actions for compliance failures or violations related
to OFAC requirements to Fannie Mae's Ethics division;
• may not deliver a loan to Fannie Mae if any borrower is on one
of the sanctions lists maintained by OFAC; and
• must periodically screen the loans that it services for Fannie
Mae against OFAC’s sanctions lists. If the servicer identiﬁes a
valid match, the servicer must
    ⚬ notify Fannie Mae Ethics via email within 24 hours of
identifying a match (see E-1-02, List of Contacts), including in the
notice the borrower’s name, Fannie Mae loan number, and a point
of contact at the servicer. Upon receipt of the notice, a
representative from Fannie Mae will contact the servicer to
discuss the match and any potential next steps.
    ⚬ take steps to ensure that any funds from the individual or
entity on an OFAC sanctions list are blocked and segregated,
including any escrow funds.
    ⚬ take steps to ensure that all servicing activities on the loan
cease. This includes, but is not limited to,
        ▪ remittance of P&I payments to Fannie Mae,
        ▪ payments to taxing authorities,
        ▪ payments to property and ﬂood insurers,
        ▪ payments to mortgage insurers,
        ▪ collection activities, including performing property
inspections,
        ▪ loss mitigation activities, and
        ▪ foreclosure.
Published June 3, 2026
97
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
Anti-money laundering Bank Secrecy
Act (BSA)
If a seller/servicer is subject to the BSA's anti-money laundering
(AML) provisions, Fannie Mae may request to examine the
relevant policies, procedures, and controls of their AML program.
The seller/servicer must report all instances of penalties (civil or
criminal) or enforcement actions for compliance failures or
violations related to anti-money laundering regulatory
requirements to Fannie Mae’s Ethics division (see E-1-02, List of
Contacts) .
If a seller/servicer is not subject to the BSA's AML provisions, it
must establish a suspicious activity identiﬁcation program that
consists of internal policies, procedures, and controls to identify
and report to Fannie Mae suspicious activity, including mortgage
fraud, money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing, and related crimes.
A suspicious activity identiﬁcation program must have the
following elements:
• a designated individual that oversees the program;
• written policies, procedures, and internal controls eﬀectuating
the program;
• program training for relevant personnel; and
• testing to assess the program's eﬀectiveness.
Fannie Mae may request to examine the relevant policies,
procedures, controls and any other material that documents and
implements these elements.
All sellers and servicers must report all instances of suspicious
activity related to Fannie Mae loans using the self-report
functionality in Loan Quality Connect or those related to Fannie
Mae’s business activities to Fannie Mae’s Mortgage Fraud
Reporting division (see E-1-02, List of Contacts) .
Fannie Mae reserves the right to make additional inquiries to the
seller/servicers of any owner, including any direct, indirect, or
beneﬁcial owner that is a foreign party.
Published June 3, 2026
98
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
HERA Servicer Reporting
Requirements
• must comply with the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of
2008 and its regulations (together, "HERA") and speciﬁcally the
Minority and Women Inclusion Rule reporting requirements and:
    ⚬ provide data regarding the diversity status of the servicer,
its agents, subcontractors, and vendors;
    ⚬ complete a Fannie Mae supplier registration proﬁle that
accurately reﬂects its ownership status, regardless of whether it
is “HERA-Inclusive, and its team composition report;
    ⚬ update its proﬁle to reﬂect such ownership changes within
30 days of any change of ownership;
    ⚬ provide ownership and team composition information
described in the  Existing Suppliers guidance on Fannie Mae’s
website annually by November 1; and
    ⚬ provide any such additional information that Fannie Mae
reasonably requests for purposes of complying with HERA, the
Minority and Women Inclusion Rule, or any other diversity and
inclusion requirements.
• may develop a process to collect the ownership status of the
agents, subcontractors, and vendors used by the servicer in
servicing loans for Fannie Mae;
• must commit to practice the principles of equal employment
opportunity and non-discrimination in all its business activities;
and
• as required by the Minority and Women Inclusion Rule, must
include, as a material condition of each contract with its agents,
subcontractors, and vendors that provide services or goods to
Fannie Mae, a provision that each such entity commit to practice
the principles of equal employment opportunity and non-
discrimination in all their business activities.
Published June 3, 2026
99
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
Address Conﬁdentiality Programs
(Safe at Home Laws)
• must comply with all applicable requirements in a state Address
Conﬁdentiality Program. This includes, when required by
applicable state law, giving notice to loan purchasers or
assignees, and providing notice to Fannie Mae's Privacy Oﬃce
(see  E-1-02, List of Contacts).
For a loan in which a borrower is enrolled in a state Address
Conﬁdentiality Program, the seller/servicer must
• include both a property address and a legal substitute mailing
address at loan delivery,
• report Special Feature Code 877,
• for a loan that it services, complete the post-purchase
adjustment process within 5 days of receiving notiﬁcation that a
borrower has enrolled in, or has unenrolled in, one of these
programs, and
• provide notice of program enrollment and the borrower mailing
address to any transferee servicer upon the transfer of servicing
rights.
The Servicing Guide also includes the post-delivery servicing
transfer requirements.
Requirements of Insurer/Guarantor
• must comply with all requirements that FHA, VA, HUD, and RD,
or the mortgage insurance companies have for loans they insure
or guarantee;
• must take all actions necessary to ensure that Fannie Mae
recovers the full amount due under the guaranty or the full claim
under the insurance contract; and
• must not enter into any agreement with insurers or guarantors
which has the potential to modify loss claim settlements under
the terms of the guaranty or insurance contract.
Published June 3, 2026
100
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC LAWS AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS
Topic A seller/servicer...
Reﬁnancing Practices
• must include in its policies and procedures appropriate
safeguards to prevent the possibilities of violating Fannie Mae’s
prohibitions against questionable or prohibited reﬁnancing
practices;
• may promote the terms it has available for reﬁnancings by
sending promotional if the servicer targets
    ⚬ borrowers of all loans in its servicing portfolio,
    ⚬ all borrowers who have speciﬁc types of loans, or
    ⚬ borrowers of loans that fall within speciﬁc interest rate
ranges.
See B2-1.3-04, Prohibited Reﬁnancing Practices for additional
information.
Compliance with Fannie Mae Cybersecurity Incident Requirements
If the seller/servicer experiences a Cybersecurity Incident (as such term is deﬁned in the Supplement), or if an
information security professional could reasonably conclude that Company or its third parties may have
experienced a Cybersecurity Incident, the seller/servicer must follow the requirements in the Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-07 August 02, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
Published June 3, 2026
101
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-06 July 06, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-06 July 03, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
A3-2-02, Responsible Lending Practices (09/01/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on responsible lending practices, including:
Overview
Responsible Lending Policies
Underwriting Standards
Overview
Each seller/servicer must use prudent, sound, and responsible business practices in its marketing and
origination eﬀorts. The seller/servicer’s operating policies and procedures must provide an eﬀective means of
ensuring responsible lending practices, and identifying and avoiding predatory lending practices.
Sellers/servicers must update their business practices as necessary to ensure responsible lending practices that
are in line with current market conditions. They must have policies and procedures, including quality control
procedures, to ensure that loans delivered to Fannie Mae comply with these responsible lending requirements.
For quality control requirements, see Part D, Ensuring Quality Control (QC).
Responsible Lending Policies