SECTION: A3-3-03
TITLE: Other Servicing Arrangements
EFFECTIVE: 12/15/2015
PAGES: 131-133
---
Published June 3, 2026
113
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
A3-3-03, Other Servicing Arrangements (12/15/2015)
Introduction
This topic provides an overview of other servicing arrangements, including:
Subservicing
General Requirements for Subservicing Arrangements
Pledge of Servicing Rights and Transfer of Interest in Servicing Income
Subservicing
A lender may use other organizations to perform some or all of its servicing functions. Fannie Mae refers to
these arrangements as “subservicing” arrangements, meaning that a servicer (the “subservicer”) other than the
contractually responsible servicer (the “master” servicer) is performing the servicing functions.
The following are not considered to be subservicing arrangements:
when a computer service bureau is used to perform accounting and reporting functions;
when the originating lender sells and assigns servicing to another lender, unless the originating lender
continues to be the contractually responsible servicer.
General Requirements for Subservicing Arrangements
A servicer may use a subservicer only if it will not interfere with the servicer’s ability to meet Fannie Mae’s
remitting and reporting requirements.
A master servicer may not enter into new subservicing arrangements—or extend existing arrangements to
include newly originated mortgages—unless both the master servicer and the subservicer are Fannie Mae-
approved servicers in good standing who are able to perform the duties associated with the master
servicer/subservicer arrangement.
The master servicer must ensure that its written agreement with the subservicer acknowledges Fannie Mae’s
right to rescind its recognition of the subservicing arrangement if Fannie Mae decides to transfer the master
servicer’s portfolio for any reason.
Published June 3, 2026
114
The master servicer must conﬁrm its existing subservicing arrangements when it submits the Lender Record
Information (Form 582) each year.
For additional information concerning subservicer and master servicer duties, responsibilities, and other
requirements, see the  Servicing Guide  on Fannie Mae’s website.
Pledge of Servicing Rights and Transfer of Interest in Servicing Income
A lender may enter into one of the following transactions, provided that the purpose of the transaction is a
purpose permitted by Fannie Mae and the lender obtains Fannie Mae’s prior written consent:
a pledge, or grant of a security interest in, the servicing rights to all or part of its Fannie Mae servicing
portfolio, including mortgage loans in MBS pools (a “pledge of servicing”);
a sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, or hypothecation of all or any portion of its compensation in excess
of the amount needed to service mortgage loans for Fannie Mae (“excess servicing compensation”); or
a sale, assignment, transfer, pledge or hypothecation of all or any portion of its right to receive
reimbursement of servicing advances.
Note: A transaction in either of the last two bullets above is referred to as a “transfer of an interest in
servicing income.”
A lender may enter into a pledge of servicing or a transfer of an interest in servicing income for the following
purposes only:
to fund the acquisition and performance of required servicing activities for additional servicing and/or
servicing portfolios;
to provide collateral for warehouse lines of credit; or
to eﬀect the purchase of all or substantially all of the assets of a mortgage banking company, including a
management buyout of its existing company, or a buyout of the controlling ownership interests of
existing shareholders.
The lender must request Fannie Mae’s prior approval of a speciﬁc pledging transaction or transfer of an interest
in servicing income at least 30 days prior to the proposed eﬀective date.
A pledge of servicing transaction between the lender and the secured creditor must be documented by a
security agreement agreed to by the lender and the secured creditor. The lender, the secured creditor, and
Fannie Mae must also execute an acknowledgment agreement acceptable to Fannie Mae, which sets forth the
rights and responsibilities of the lender, the secured creditor, and Fannie Mae.
A transfer of an interest in servicing income transaction between the lender and the purchaser or ﬁnancier must
be documented by a purchase and sale, security or ﬁnancing agreement in a form agreed to by the lender and
the purchaser or ﬁnancier. The lender, the purchaser or ﬁnancier, and Fannie Mae must also execute a
subordination of interest agreement acceptable to Fannie Mae, which sets forth the rights and responsibilities of
the lender, the purchaser or ﬁnancier, and Fannie Mae.
For additional information about the terms and provisions of the security agreement and the acknowledgment
agreement, see the Servicing Guide .
Published June 3, 2026
115
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
A3-3-04, Document Custodians (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides general information on document custodians, including:
General Requirements
Selection of a Document Custodian
Documentation of the Relationship
Additional Seller/Servicer Obligations Related to Document Custodians
General Requirements
Certain documents related to Fannie Mae loans must be held by a Fannie Mae-approved document custodian.
The document custodian is acting on behalf of the seller/servicer and Fannie Mae when certifying loan
documents and data at the time of acquisition by Fannie Mae. The roles and responsibilities of the document
custodian are described in the Fannie Mae Requirements for Document Custodians (RDC guide).
Selection of a Document Custodian
For whole loans and MBS loans (excluding eNotes), the seller/servicer must use one of Fannie Mae's active
document custodians.
For whole loans or MBS loans delivered as eNotes, Fannie Mae is the document custodian but has designated
certain third parties to certify eNotes. The seller/servicer must use an approved third party to certify eNotes to
Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae may require a seller/servicer or document custodian to transfer documents to a diﬀerent document
custodian, even if the current custodian satisﬁes Fannie Mae's requirements.
Refer to Fannie Mae's Active Document Custodians for a complete list of eligible document custodians.
Documentation of the Relationship
The seller must add the document custodian to its proﬁle within the Loan Delivery application. For all mortgage
loans, the document custodian will certify the loans through the Document Certiﬁcation application.
Each custodian arrangement must be evidenced by the execution of a Master Custodial Agreement (Form
2017). Form 2017 covers custodial arrangements for both whole loans and MBS loans. The seller/servicer sends