SECTION: A3-3-01
TITLE: Outsourcing of Mortgage Processing and Third-Party Originations
EFFECTIVE: 02/07/2024
PAGES: 123-125
---
Published June 3, 2026
105
Arrangements
Introduction
This chapter explains Fannie Mae’s requirements regarding the outsourcing of mortgage origination and
servicing functions. It also addresses other servicing arrangements as well as the requirements related to
document custody and document custodians.
A3-3-01, Outsourcing of Mortgage Processing and Third-Party
Originations (02/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the outsourcing of mortgage originations to third parties, including:
Third-Party Originations
Management Procedures for Third-Party Originations
Third-Party Originations
A third-party origination is any loan that is completely or partially originated, processed, underwritten,
packaged, funded, or closed by an entity other than the seller (or its parent company, controlled aﬃliate or
subsidiary) that sells the loan to Fannie Mae. This includes mortgage brokers or correspondents, which are
known as third-party originators. If a seller enters into a contract with a third party known for the quality of its
underwriting (such as a mortgage insurer) to help the seller in underwriting its mortgage originations, the loans
will not be considered third-party originations. Refer to Chapter E-3, Glossary for the deﬁnition of correspondent
and broker. (Retail is also an origination type but is not considered a third-party origination.)
Sellers remain fully responsible to Fannie Mae for functions that are outsourced to third parties.
Certain Special Feature Codes (see Special Feature Codes) are required at delivery for third-party originations.
A seller must have eﬀective written policies and procedures for the approval and management of third-party
originations and must satisfy itself that the third-party originator is capable of producing quality loans.
Management Procedures for Third-Party Originations
Eﬀective management procedures for third-party originations include the items in the table below.
Published June 3, 2026
106
✓ Management Procedures for Third-Party Originations
 
A system for evaluating and approving third-party originators to ensure that they produce
quality loans. The seller’s procedures must include a review of the following:
• most recent ﬁnancial statements;
• current licenses;
• resumes or other appropriate information of principal oﬃcers managing the underwriting
and originating process;
• the third party’s QC procedures so that the seller can determine if the party and its
originations meet the seller’s standards for quality;
• results of background checks for principal oﬃcers; and
• the third-party originator’s hiring procedure for checking all employees involved in the
origination of loans (including application through closing) against:
    ⚬ the U.S. General Services Administration Excluded Parties List,
    ⚬ the HUD Limited Denial of Participation List, and
    ⚬ the Federal Housing Finance Agency Suspended Counterparty Program List.
 A method for verifying, and periodically reverifying, a third-party originator’s compliance with
applicable laws, licensing, and qualiﬁcations for originating loans.
 A method for conﬁrming that a third-party originator meets its contract with the seller and the
seller’s Lender Contract with Fannie Mae.
 A requirement that a third-party originator have a written QC plan and a method to validate
the existence of that plan.
 A process for resolving QC discrepancies and tracking corrective actions.
 A requirement for submitting periodic reports on activity and performance issues to the
seller’s senior management.
 Standards for evaluating a third-party originator’s performance.
 Provisions for suspending or terminating the third-party originator’s relationship.
 Annual review of the third-party originator’s ﬁnancial statements to determine that it is
ﬁnancially viable and capable of meeting its obligations.
 Quarterly review of the performance of loans originated by the third-party originator.
Published June 3, 2026
107
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
 
A3-3-02, Concurrent Servicing Transfers (05/01/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on concurrent servicing transfers, including:
Concurrent Servicing Transfers
Servicer Eligibility Criteria
Servicing Assignment Contract
Notiﬁcation of Concurrent Servicing Transfers
Termination of Concurrent Servicing Transfers
Servicing Marketplace
Servicer Eligibility Criteria for Servicing Marketplace
Seller Eligibility Criteria for Servicing Marketplace
Servicing Marketplace (SMP) Bifurcation Terms and Conditions
Concurrent Servicing Transfers
A concurrent servicing transfer (also known as a transfer of servicing concurrent with delivery) occurs when a
selling lender transfers the servicing rights for a loan to a Fannie Mae–approved servicer at the same time it
sells the loan to Fannie Mae. This is an “automatic” transfer because Fannie Mae’s prior approval of the
transaction is not required.
If the selling lender is servicing the loans prior to delivery and will not be servicing the loans after delivery, the
selling lender may automatically transfer servicing to a lender that is eligible to service them for Fannie Mae,
and has agreed to do so, eﬀective concurrently with delivery of the loans to Fannie Mae. The lender must notify
Fannie Mae at the time of loan delivery that servicing has been transferred.
Additionally, the selling lender may designate the servicing lender as Fannie Mae’s servicer for the loans by
notifying Fannie Mae at the time of delivery if:
the selling lender is not servicing the loans prior to delivery because it has contracted with another lender
(the “servicing lender”) to service the loans for the selling lender;