SECTION: A3-3-05
TITLE: Custody of Mortgage Documents
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 135-137
---
Published June 3, 2026
117
Topic Description
Monitoring
A seller/servicer must establish appropriate methods for
monitoring the ﬁnancial viability and operational
capabilities of any document custodian it uses, which
include, at a minimum:
• an annual review of information about the document
custodian’s internal audits, and
• a quarterly review of the document custodian’s ﬁnancial
rating (or its parent’s or subsidiary’s ratings if the
custodian is not a regulated institution).
Should the ﬁnancial rating fall below the minimum
criteria, the seller or servicer must immediately notify
their Fannie Mae Servicing Consultant and send an email
notiﬁcation to Fannie Mae's Custodian Oversight and
Monitoring department (see E-1-02, List of Contacts).
Fannie Mae will determine whether it will allow the
documents to remain with the current document
custodian or require them to be transferred to an
acceptable document custodian.
Providing Loan Information
The servicer must provide to the document custodian an
electronic list that identiﬁes, by Fannie Mae loan number,
the loans serviced by the servicer for which the document
custodian holds custodial documents within 30 days of
such a request from the document custodian.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL- 2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Published June 3, 2026
118
A3-3-05, Custody of Mortgage Documents (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the custody of mortgage documents, including:
Overview of Custodian Documents
Release of Custodial Documents
Transfer and Recertiﬁcation of Custodial Documents
Overview of Custodian Documents
Custodial documents are the legal mortgage documents an approved document custodian takes into physical
custody when Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes a loan. The following documents are key custodial
documents for whole loans and MBS loans. All other documents may be held in the individual loan ﬁle
maintained by the seller/servicer.
✓ Type of Document
 Original note and note addenda
 
Other documents needed for certiﬁcation of whole loans or certiﬁcation for inclusion in an MBS
pool such as
• powers of attorney, and
• interest rate buydown agreements
See E-2-01, Required Custodial Documents for additional documentation requirements.
Release of Custodial Documents
The document custodian must not release custodial documents for either whole loans or MBS loans unless it
receives a written request (including in electronic form) containing substantially the same information as
required by Request for Release/Return of Documents (Form 2009).
Transfer and Recertiﬁcation of Custodial Documents
The servicer of any Fannie Mae loan may transfer related custodial documents to any document custodian with
which it has executed a Master Custodial Agreement (Form 2017). The servicer must send a request to Fannie
Mae’s Custodian Oversight team and include the name of the transferor and transferee custodians and the list
of loans requested for transfer (see E-1-02, List of Contacts). Fannie Mae will provide approval for the transfer,
which the servicer will be responsible for providing to the transferee and transferor document custodians. The
Published June 3, 2026
119
servicer must make appropriate arrangements for the safe transfer of the custodial documents to the new
custodian’s facilities and for the payment of all costs related to the transfer.
Recertiﬁcation of custodial documents is required when there is a transfer of
documents by the existing servicer to a new document custodian, or
servicing (whether or not there is a change in document custodian).
If a transferee servicer does not want to use the same document custodian that has been holding custodial
documents for loans included in a servicing transfer, it must inform Fannie Mae of the change in document
custodian arrangements when it sends the Request for Approval of Servicing or Subservicing Transfer (Form
629). The transferee servicer should not submit a custodial agreement executed by the new document
custodian(s) until after it receives notiﬁcation that the servicing transfer has been approved.
The transferor servicer must provide the existing document custodian and the new document custodian with a
data ﬁle that provides certain loan-level information for each loan for which custodial documents are being
transferred. The servicer must include the documentation in a separate loan ﬁle for each loan being transferred.
When the servicer sends individual ﬁles, it should band (or box) them together with the trial balance to ensure
that the new document custodian can associate the documents with what is delivered in each box.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL- 2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
Chapter A3-4, Lending Practices
Introduction
This chapter includes information on Fannie Mae’s requirements related to data delivery, data quality, and the
handling of conﬁdential information. It also contains the steps that approved lenders must take to prevent,
detect, and report mortgage fraud.
A3-4-01, Conﬁdentiality of Information (02/05/2025)
Introduction