SECTION: A3-5-02
TITLE: Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 07/25/2017
PAGES: 146-148
---
Published June 3, 2026
128
omissions insurance policy as long as it is named as a joint insured under the bond or policy. However, if the
parent’s deductible amount exceeds the maximum deductible that Fannie Mae allows as required in A3-5-02,
Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements, the seller/servicer must obtain a ﬁdelity bond in its own name for an amount
that is at least equal to the amount of the parent’s deductible, with a separate deductible amount that is no
higher than the maximum amount Fannie Mae allows for the seller/servicer’s coverage.
Fannie Mae will accept coverage underwritten by an insurer that is aﬃliated with Lloyd’s of London.
Fannie Mae will consider the use of captive reinsurance arrangements on a case-by-case basis.
Each ﬁdelity bond and errors and omissions insurance policy must include the following provisions:
Fannie Mae is named as a “loss payee” on drafts the insurer issues to pay for covered losses incurred by
Fannie Mae;
Fannie Mae has the right to ﬁle a claim directly with the insurer if the seller/servicer fails to ﬁle a claim for
a covered loss incurred by Fannie Mae when reasonably available;
Fannie Mae will be notiﬁed at least 30 days before the insurer cancels, reduces, declines to renew, or
imposes a restrictive modiﬁcation to the seller/servicer’s coverage for any reason other than a partial or
full exhaustion of the insurer’s limit of liability under the policy; and
a provision that the insurer will notify Fannie Mae within ten days after the insurer receives a
seller/servicer’s request to cancel or reduce any coverage.
The seller/servicer must provide Fannie Mae a copy of its ﬁdelity bond or errors and omissions insurance
certiﬁcate within 30 days of Fannie Mae’s request. If the seller/servicer obtains an endorsement to the bond or
policy or obtains additional coverage, it should also provide Fannie Mae a copy of the endorsement or a
description of the additional coverage, unless the information can be summarized substantively on the
insurance certiﬁcate.
The insurance certiﬁcate should indicate:
the insurer’s name,
the bond or policy number,
the named insured,
the type and amount of coverage (specifying whether the insurer’s liability limits are on an aggregate
loss or per mortgage basis),
the eﬀective date of the coverage, and
the deductible amount.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
129
A3-5-02, Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements (07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on ﬁdelity bond policy requirements, including:
Fidelity Bond Coverage Requirements
Fidelity Bond Coverage and Deductible Amounts
Fidelity Bond Coverage Requirements
The ﬁdelity bond must insure against losses resulting from dishonest or fraudulent acts committed by:
the seller/servicer’s principal owner,
the seller/servicer’s personnel,
any employees of outside ﬁrms that provide legal services to the seller/servicer or data processing
services for the seller/servicer or other accounting records for the seller/servicer, and
persons assigned to the seller/servicer through an intervening employer or agency to perform the usual
duties of an employee of the seller/servicer on a contingent or temporary basis and interns.
For corporate seller/servicers, Fannie Mae will accept coverage under the following types of ﬁdelity bonds:
Mortgage Bankers Blanket Bond Policy,
Savings and Loan Blanket Bond Policy, or
Bankers Blanket Bond Policy.
Fidelity Bond Coverage and Deductible Amounts
As described in the table below, the ﬁdelity bond coverage must be equal to a percentage of, the greater of the
seller/servicer’s annual
total UPB of single-family and multifamily annual mortgage loan originations; or
highest monthly total UPB of single-family and multifamily servicing of mortgage loans that the
seller/servicer owns, including mortgage loans owned by the seller/servicer and serviced by others.
Note: If the seller/servicer uses a subservicing arrangement, the master servicer must maintain
ﬁdelity bond coverage at all times for the servicing of mortgage loans that it owns but that the
subservicer services for that master servicer. A subservicer must only maintain coverage for mortgage
loans that it owns. (See Servicing Guide A2-1-07, Subservicing for additional information about
subservicing arrangements).
The ﬁdelity bond coverage amount and maximum deductible limit is determined in accordance with the
Published June 3, 2026
130
requirements in the following table. The maximum amount of ﬁdelity bond coverage required is $150 million.
Total UPB Coverage Required Maximum Deductible Clause
Based on Face Value of Policy
$100 million or less $300,000
higher of 10% or $100,000
Over $100 million up to $1 billion + 0.150% of the next $400 million
+ 0.125% of the next $500 million
Over $1 billion + 0.100% of any amount over $1
billion
15%
Note: A deductible above 15% will
be considered based on adequate
seller/servicer ﬁnancial strength.
(See A4-1-01, Maintaining
Seller/Servicer Eligibility. The
seller/servicer must obtain Fannie
Mae’s prior written consent. The
deductible cannot exceed 1% of
the seller/servicer’s total net
worth.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
A3-5-03, Errors and Omissions Policy Requirements (07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on errors and omissions policy requirements, including:
Errors and Omissions Coverage Requirements
Errors and Omissions Coverage and Deductible Amounts
Mortgage Impairment or Substitute for Errors and Omissions
Errors and Omissions Coverage Requirements
The errors and omissions policy must, at least, protect the seller/servicer against negligence, errors, and
omissions in:
maintaining property and ﬂood insurance that meets Fannie Mae’s requirements,