SECTION: A3-5-01
TITLE: Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Coverage Provisions
EFFECTIVE: 07/25/2017
PAGES: 145-146
---
Published June 3, 2026
127
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement-SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
Announcement-SEL-2018-06 August 07, 2018
 
Chapter A3-5, Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions
Coverage
Introduction
This chapter describes Fannie Mae’s ﬁdelity bond and errors and omissions coverage and policy requirements.
A3-5-01, Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Coverage Provisions
(07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on ﬁdelity bond and errors and omissions insurance coverage provisions.
Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Coverage Provisions
Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Coverage Provisions
A seller/servicer must have a blanket ﬁdelity bond and an errors and omissions insurance policy in eﬀect at all
times in an amount suﬃcient to meet Fannie Mae’s minimum coverage requirements described in A3-5-02,
Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements and A3-5-03, Errors and Omissions Policy Requirements.
A seller/servicer that is a subsidiary of another institution may use its parent’s ﬁdelity bond and errors and
Published June 3, 2026
128
omissions insurance policy as long as it is named as a joint insured under the bond or policy. However, if the
parent’s deductible amount exceeds the maximum deductible that Fannie Mae allows as required in A3-5-02,
Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements, the seller/servicer must obtain a ﬁdelity bond in its own name for an amount
that is at least equal to the amount of the parent’s deductible, with a separate deductible amount that is no
higher than the maximum amount Fannie Mae allows for the seller/servicer’s coverage.
Fannie Mae will accept coverage underwritten by an insurer that is aﬃliated with Lloyd’s of London.
Fannie Mae will consider the use of captive reinsurance arrangements on a case-by-case basis.
Each ﬁdelity bond and errors and omissions insurance policy must include the following provisions:
Fannie Mae is named as a “loss payee” on drafts the insurer issues to pay for covered losses incurred by
Fannie Mae;
Fannie Mae has the right to ﬁle a claim directly with the insurer if the seller/servicer fails to ﬁle a claim for
a covered loss incurred by Fannie Mae when reasonably available;
Fannie Mae will be notiﬁed at least 30 days before the insurer cancels, reduces, declines to renew, or
imposes a restrictive modiﬁcation to the seller/servicer’s coverage for any reason other than a partial or
full exhaustion of the insurer’s limit of liability under the policy; and
a provision that the insurer will notify Fannie Mae within ten days after the insurer receives a
seller/servicer’s request to cancel or reduce any coverage.
The seller/servicer must provide Fannie Mae a copy of its ﬁdelity bond or errors and omissions insurance
certiﬁcate within 30 days of Fannie Mae’s request. If the seller/servicer obtains an endorsement to the bond or
policy or obtains additional coverage, it should also provide Fannie Mae a copy of the endorsement or a
description of the additional coverage, unless the information can be summarized substantively on the
insurance certiﬁcate.
The insurance certiﬁcate should indicate:
the insurer’s name,
the bond or policy number,
the named insured,
the type and amount of coverage (specifying whether the insurer’s liability limits are on an aggregate
loss or per mortgage basis),
the eﬀective date of the coverage, and
the deductible amount.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.