SECTION: A3-5-03
TITLE: Errors and Omissions Policy Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 07/25/2017
PAGES: 148-150
---
Published June 3, 2026
130
requirements in the following table. The maximum amount of ﬁdelity bond coverage required is $150 million.
Total UPB Coverage Required Maximum Deductible Clause
Based on Face Value of Policy
$100 million or less $300,000
higher of 10% or $100,000
Over $100 million up to $1 billion + 0.150% of the next $400 million
+ 0.125% of the next $500 million
Over $1 billion + 0.100% of any amount over $1
billion
15%
Note: A deductible above 15% will
be considered based on adequate
seller/servicer ﬁnancial strength.
(See A4-1-01, Maintaining
Seller/Servicer Eligibility. The
seller/servicer must obtain Fannie
Mae’s prior written consent. The
deductible cannot exceed 1% of
the seller/servicer’s total net
worth.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
A3-5-03, Errors and Omissions Policy Requirements (07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on errors and omissions policy requirements, including:
Errors and Omissions Coverage Requirements
Errors and Omissions Coverage and Deductible Amounts
Mortgage Impairment or Substitute for Errors and Omissions
Errors and Omissions Coverage Requirements
The errors and omissions policy must, at least, protect the seller/servicer against negligence, errors, and
omissions in:
maintaining property and ﬂood insurance that meets Fannie Mae’s requirements,
Published June 3, 2026
131
maintaining any required mortgage insurance or loan guaranty,
determining whether properties are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas,
paying real estate taxes and any special assessments, and
complying with reporting requirements of the mortgage insurer or guarantor.
Errors and Omissions Coverage and Deductible Amounts
The errors and omissions coverage must equal the amount of the seller/servicer’s ﬁdelity bond coverage. See
the formula in A3-5-02, Fidelity Bond Policy Requirements to determine the amount of coverage required.
However, Fannie Mae does not require errors and omissions coverage in excess of:
$10 million if the seller/servicer sells or services only single-family mortgage loans, or
$30 million if the seller/servicer sells or services single-family and multifamily mortgage loans.
Note: If the seller/servicer uses a subservicing arrangement, the master servicer must maintain errors
and omissions coverage at all times for the servicing of mortgage loans that it owns but that the
subservicer services for that master servicer. A subservicer must only maintain coverage for mortgage
loans that it owns. (See the Servicing Guide A2-1-07, Subservicing for additional information about
subservicing arrangements.)
Fannie Mae accepts policies that provide for either coverage per aggregate loss or coverage per mortgage loan.
If the policy provides coverage per mortgage loan:
the insurer’s liability must at least equal the amount of the highest UPB for a single-family or multifamily
mortgage loan. that the seller/servicer owns, and
the seller/servicer must review the balances of the mortgage loans it services before each premium
renewal date to determine whether the above limitation needs to be increased as the result of the
origination of higher balance mortgage loans during the last coverage period.
For policies that provide coverage per mortgage loan, the maximum deductible amount for each mortgage loan
cannot be more than 5% of the insurer’s liability per mortgage loan.
For policies that provide coverage per aggregate loss, the deductible is determined in accordance with the
following table:
Total UPB Maximum Deductible
Less than $1 billion greater of $100,000 or 10% of the face amount of the
policy
Equal to or greater than $1 billion 15% of the face amount of the policy
Mortgage Impairment or Substitute for Errors and Omissions
Published June 3, 2026
132
Fannie Mae will accept a mortgage impairment or mortgagee interest policy as a substitute for an errors and
omissions policy, provided Fannie Mae receives substantially the same coverage that an errors and omissions
policy would provide.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
A3-5-04, Reporting Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Events
(12/04/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reporting ﬁdelity bond and errors and omissions events.
Reporting Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Events
Reporting Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Events
The seller/servicer must report to Fannie Mae within 30 days after discovery of the occurrence of a single ﬁdelity
bond or errors and omissions policy loss that is mortgage related and the amount exceeds the lesser of
$250,000 or the policy’s deductible, even when no claim will be ﬁled or when Fannie Mae’s interest will not be
aﬀected.
In addition, the seller/servicer must report to Fannie Mae within ten business days of receipt of a notice from the
insurer regarding the intended cancellation, reduction, nonrenewal, or restrictive modiﬁcation of the
seller/servicer’s ﬁdelity bond or errors and omissions policy. The seller/servicer must send Fannie Mae a copy of
the insurer’s notice, describe in detail the reason for the insurer’s action if it is not stated in the notice, and
explain the eﬀorts it has made to obtain replacement coverage or to otherwise satisfy Fannie Mae’s insurance
requirements. See E-1-02, List of Contacts for the email address for reporting.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 