SECTION: A4-1-04
TITLE: Submission of Irrevocable Limited Powers of Attorney
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 164-166
---
Published June 3, 2026
146
✓ Examples
 A signiﬁcant change in the lender’s ﬁnancial position
 A change in the legal name of the lender’s organization
 A change in the address of its principal place of business
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
 
A4-1-04, Submission of Irrevocable Limited Powers of Attorney
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on irrevocable limited powers of attorney, including:
Submitting Irrevocable Limited Power of Attorney (Form 520) to Fannie Mae
Change in Seller/Servicer Legal Name
Submitting Irrevocable Limited Power of Attorney (Form 520) to Fannie Mae
Seller/servicers must complete and deliver ﬁve executed original Form 520 to Fannie Mae at the address
indicated on the instructions to the form.  See below for an exception to this requirement.
All signatures on the  Form 520 must be provided using traditional in-person ink-signed methods. Irrespective of
the law of the place of execution, the notary may not use the remote in-person method of signatory
authentication and signature witnessing or eNotarization, including remote online notarization, to satisfy the
notarization of the Form 520.
The Form 520 does not modify the duties and obligations of the parties under the Lender Contract. The Form
520 is a free-standing remedial instrument intended to preserve and protect Fannie Mae's interest in loans
serviced by the seller/servicer. In the event of exigent circumstances, Fannie Mae will use the power of attorney
at its sole discretion (for example, when for whatever reason a seller/servicer is unable or unwilling to execute
Published June 3, 2026
147
requested assignments of mortgages on a timely basis).
In lieu of the Form 520, a seller/servicer that is a housing ﬁnance agency, as deﬁned in 24 C.F.R. §266.5, may
submit a letter conﬁrming that it meets such deﬁnition.  After Fannie Mae has reviewed and veriﬁed compliance
with the deﬁnition, the seller/servicer will be exempt from this requirement. 
Change in Seller/Servicer Legal Name
If there are changes in a seller/servicer's legal name that requires approval or notice as required in A4-1-03,
Report of Changes in the Seller/Servicer’s Organization, the seller/servicer shall prepare ﬁve new Form 520 in
the new name of the seller or servicer and deliver them to Fannie Mae in accordance with the instructions within
thirty (30) days of the eﬀective date of such legal name change. 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Published June 3, 2026
148
Part B, Origination Through Closing
Introduction
This part provides the requirements for originating conventional and government loans for sale to Fannie Mae.
B1, Loan Application Package
This subpart contains information concerning the documentation required in application packages for loans to
be delivered to Fannie Mae and the allowable age of credit documents. It also includes a sample borrower
authorization form.
B2, Eligibility
This subpart provides Fannie Mae eligibility policies.
B3, Underwriting Borrowers
This subpart contains borrower underwriting policies for conventional mortgage loans for sale to Fannie Mae.
B4, Underwriting Property
This subpart contains property eligibility and underwriting policies for conventional loans for sale to Fannie Mae.
B5, Unique Eligibility and Underwriting Considerations
This subpart contains unique eligibility and underwriting considerations. Where appropriate, references to
Fannie Mae’s standard underwriting policies and requirements are provided.
B6, Government Programs Eligibility and Underwriting Requirements
This subpart contains information on eligible government mortgage programs.
B7, Insurance
This subpart provides requirements for mortgage, title, and other types of insurance.
B8, Closing: Legal Documents
This subpart provides Fannie Mae’s policies on documenting the loan closing process.