SECTION: A4-1-01
TITLE: Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility
EFFECTIVE: 02/05/2025
PAGES: 151-158
---
Published June 3, 2026
133
Subpart A4, Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility
Introduction
This subpart contains the requirements to which sellers/servicers must adhere in order to maintain their
eligibility to transact business with Fannie Mae. It describes the ﬁnancial statements, operational reports, and
Lender Record information that sellers/servicers must submit to Fannie Mae, and it addresses the types of
organizational changes and events for which sellers/servicers must notify Fannie Mae in writing.
Chapter A4-1, Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility: Overview
Introduction
This chapter describes the requirements a seller/servicer must satisfy to maintain or reactivate its status as a
Fannie Mae-approved seller/servicer. Reactivated sellers/servicers may again deliver loans to Fannie Mae and/or
service Fannie Mae loans (and subservice loans for other Fannie Mae-approved servicers). It also includes
information on the submission of the irrevocable limited power of attorney to Fannie Mae.
A4-1-01, Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on maintaining seller/servicer eligibility, including:
Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility
Deﬁnitions
Minimum Requirements
Additional Financial Requirements
Recourse Obligation
Business Continuity Management and Disaster Recovery
Audit and Management Control Requirements
Written Policies and Procedures
Management of Vendors and Other Third-party Service Providers
Maintaining Seller/Servicer Eligibility
To maintain eligibility, the seller/servicer must comply with the minimum requirements described in this topic. If
a seller/servicer fails to maintain any of these requirements or fails to comply with its Lender Contract, such
failure is a breach of the Lender Contract.
In addition, the circumstances and qualiﬁcations that were in place for Fannie Mae’s consideration at the time of
Published June 3, 2026
134
the seller/servicer’s approval generally must not adversely change after approval.
If a seller does not meet the minimum loan sale requirement below, the seller's approval to sell loans to Fannie
Mae will be terminated and access to all technology that is licensed only to approved sellers will be terminate
within 60 days. If a servicer does not meet the minimum loan servicing requirement below, the servicer's
approval to service loans for Fannie Mae will be terminated and access to all technology that is licensed only to
approved servicers will be terminated. Once terminated as a seller or a servicer, the entity must go through the
seller/servicer application process to become an approved seller or servicer again and be eligible to sell or
service loans. Fannie Mae will review the application documentation and determine whether the seller or
servicer meets the then current eligibility requirements. Contact the Onboarding Team (see E-1-02, List of
Contacts) for additional information.
Note: Sellers/servicers are not required to purchase or own Fannie Mae stock as a condition of
eligibility (as stated in the Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract).
Deﬁnitions
The following table provides the deﬁnition of terms related to maintaining seller/servicer eligibility as described
in the minimum requirements below.
Term Deﬁnition
Adjusted net worth
Adjusted Net Worth is deﬁned as:
• total equity capital as determined by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP); minus
• goodwill and other intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights); minus
• aﬃliated receivables; minus
• pledged assets net of associated liabilities; minus
• deferred tax assets net of associated deferred tax liabilities.
Note: If the deferred tax liabilities are greater than the deferred tax assets, then the deduction from the
Adjusted Net Worth will be zero.
Allowable liquidity
Allowable liquidity includes:
• unrestricted cash and cash equivalents;
• unpledged, available-for-sale or held-for-trading investment grade securities limited to the following:
    ⚬ Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae MBS;
    ⚬ obligations of GSEs;
    ⚬ U.S. Treasury obligations; and
• 50% of the unused portion of committed servicing advance lines of credit of one- to four-unit
residential ﬁrst lien mortgage loans serviced for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae.
Large non-depository
sellers/servicers
An entity servicing $50 billion or more in residential ﬁrst lien mortgage servicing UPB plus other
servicing UPB as determined at the end of each calendar quarter.
Long-term corporate family
rating
A long-term rating that reﬂects the relative likelihood of a default on a corporate family's debt and debt-
like obligations and the expected ﬁnancial loss suﬀered in the event of default from a rating agency.
Long-term senior unsecured
debt rating
A rating assigned to a ﬁnancial obligation with an original maturity of one year or more that reﬂects the
likelihood of a default on contractually promised payments on senior unsecured debts and the expected
ﬁnancial loss suﬀered in the event of default on such dents from a rating agency.
Published June 3, 2026
135
Term Deﬁnition
Other servicing UPB
The outstanding UPB of a seller/servicer's portfolio of one- to four-unit residential ﬁrst lien mortgage
loans the seller/servicer is contractually obligated to service for all investors other than Fannie Mae,
Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae, plus the following regardless of the investor:
• second lien mortgage loans;
• funded home equity lines of credit;
• reverse mortgage loans; and
• construction and land development mortgage loans
The outstanding UPB of mortgage loans serviced by a seller/servicer under a subservicing arrangement
is excluded.
Rating agency An entity that is a "Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization" as deﬁned by Section 78c(a) of
Title 15 of the United States Code (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)).
Residential ﬁrst lien mortgage
servicing UPB
The outstanding UPB of a seller/servicer's portfolio of one- to four-unit residential ﬁrst lien mortgage
loans the seller/servicer is contractually obligated to service for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or Ginnie Mae,
as applicable, excluding;
• funded home equity lines of credit,
• reverse mortgage loans, and
• construction and land developments mortgage loans.
The outstanding UPB of mortgage loans serviced by a seller/servicer under a subservicing arrangement
is excluded.
Servicer rating
An evaluation of a seller/servicer for its capacity to carry out servicing business, which is diﬀerent from
evaluations of ﬁnancial instruments or credit standing of corporations, from a rating agency. Servicer
ratings may be conducted based upon the type of servicing actions performed, including evaluations for
entities that act as primary servicers, special servicers or master servicers.
 
Minimum Requirements
Sellers/servicers must comply with the minimum requirements described in the following table.
Category Description
Loan Sales A seller must sell at least 12 loans to Fannie Mae during the prior calendar year.
Loan Servicing
A servicer must service at least one loan for Fannie Mae as of December 31 of the prior calendar
year.
Published June 3, 2026
136
Category Description
Minimum Net Worth (applicable to
depository and non-depository
sellers/servicers)
All depository and non-depository sellers/servicers must maintain at all times an Adjusted Net Worth
of at least $2.5 million, plus an amount equal to or greater than the sum of the following:
• 0.25% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, plus
• 0.35% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Ginnie Mae, plus
• 0.25% of the Other Servicing UPB
See Seller Eligibility Criteria for Servicing Marketplace in  A3-3-02, Concurrent Servicing Transfers for
additional requirements for SMP lenders.
For entities such as nonproﬁt corporations whose ﬁnancial reporting requirements or standards do
not facilitate calculation of Adjusted Net Worth, Fannie Mae will use equivalent ﬁnancial data to
determine compliance with the minimum net worth requirements.
Minimum Capital Requirements
(applicable to depository
sellers/servicers)
Sellers/servicers that are depository institutions are required to meet at all times the minimum
regulatory capital requirements of their primary regulator. 
Minimum Capital Requirements
(applicable to non-depository 
sellers/servicers)
Non-depository sellers/servicers must maintain at all times a minimum Adjusted New Worth/total
assets ratio of 6%, or equivalent, as determined by Fannie Mae.
Minimum Liquidity (applicable to
non-depository sellers/servicers)
Non-depository sellers/servicers must maintain at all times an Allowable Liquidity at a level equal to
or greater than the sum of the following:
• 0.07% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with scheduled/scheduled or scheduled/actual remittance types, plus
• 0.035% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with actual/actual remittance types, plus;
• 0.10% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Ginnie Mae, plus
• 0.035% of the Other Servicing UPB.
 
Origination Liquidity (applicable to
certain non-depository
sellers/servicers)
Non-depository seller/servicers who originate greater than $1 billion in one- to four-unit residential
ﬁrst lien mortgage loans (excluding reverse mortgages, one- to four-unit residential construction-to-
permanent loans to home buyers, and lot loans to consumers) in the most recent four-quarter period
must maintain an origination liquidity of 0.5% of the sum of the following:
• one- to four-unit residential ﬁrst lien mortgage loans (excluding reverse mortgages, one- to-four-
unit residential construction-to-permanent loans to home buyers, and lot loans to consumers) held for
sale, at lower of cost or market; plus
• one- to four-unit residential ﬁrst lien mortgage loans (excluding reverse mortgages, one- to-four-
unit residential construction-to-permanent loans to home buyers, and lot loans to consumers) held for
sale, at fair value; plus 
• UPB of interest rate lock commitments after fallout adjustments.
Additional Requirements for Large Non-depository Sellers/Servicers
In addition to the minimum requirements for non-depository sellers/servicers above, Large Non-depository
sellers/servicers must comply with the requirements described in the following table.
Published June 3, 2026
137
Category Description
Supplemental Liquidity
In additional to the minimum liquidity requirements for non-depository seller/servicers above, Large
Non-depository sellers/servicers must maintain supplemental Allowable Liquidity at all times at a level
equal to a greater to or greater than the sum of the following:
• 0.02% of the portion of the seller/server's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and 
• 0.05% of the portion of the seller/servicer's Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB serviced
for Ginnie Mae.
Capital and Liquidity Plan
Within 90 days after the end of each calendar year, Large Non-depository sellers/servicers must
submit a plan to Fannie Mae that describes how the seller/servicer intends to manage its capital and
liquidity in a manner consistent with Fannie Mae requirements.
The capital and liquidity plan must include the following at a minimum:
• a description of the seller/servicer's corporate governance over the capital and liquidity planning
process, such as oversight responsibilities of senior management and its board of directors, and a
discussion of the seller/servicer's risk management framework;
• a description of the processes to monitor and measure liquidity risks, such as business activity
reports and ﬁnancial forecast and cashﬂow projections;
• capital and liquidity contingency funding plans, including providing for testing and reaﬃrmation of
such plans at least annually;
• an annual liquidity stress test, including a stress test of the value of mortgage servicing rights in an
adverse scenario as developed by the seller/servicer, or as prescribed by Fannie Mae, or both; and
• a requirement to provide written notice to Fannie Mae
    ⚬ within ﬁve business days following any material change to or material deviation from the plan;
and
    ⚬ within one business day of any material changes during times of stress.
Note: The seller/servicer is authorized to run the stress test either in-house or using a third-party
vendor.
To submit the capital and liquidity plans to Fannie Mae, sellers/servicers must contact their Fannie
Mae customer account team for further instructions.
Third-party Servicer Rating
Large Non-depository seller/servicer's must maintain a Rating Agency rating as follows:
• Sellers/servicers servicing equal to or greater than $50 billion in Residential First Lien Mortgage
Service UPB plus Other Servicing UPB must have one primary Servicer Rating or master Servicer
Rating, as applicable;
• Sellers/servicers servicing greater than $100 billion in Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB
must have:
    ⚬ one primary Servicer Rating or master Servicer Rating, as applicable; and 
    ⚬ one Long-term Senior Unsecured Debt Rating or Long-term Corporate Family Rating.
• Sellers/servicers servicing greater than $150 billion in Residential First Lien Mortgage Servicing UPB
plus Other Servicing UPB must have:
    ⚬ one primary Servicer Rating or master Servicing Rating, as applicable; and
    ⚬ issued by two Rating Agencies, a Long-term Senior Unsecured Debt Rating or a Long-term
Corporate Family Rating.
 
Additional Financial Requirements
Fannie Mae may, at any time based on its view of a seller/servicer’s ﬁnancial strength or its assessment of
market conditions or other relevant factors, impose additional ﬁnancial requirements, including enhanced net
Published June 3, 2026
138
worth, capital, or liquidity requirements, as well as provisions related to the items in the Additional Financial
Requirements table below.
Any additional requirements Fannie Mae imposes may apply to a particular seller/servicer, a deﬁned group or
type of seller/servicer, or all sellers/servicers. A seller/servicer’s failure to comply with any additional
requirements may result in Fannie Mae declaring a breach of the Lender Contract.
Fannie Mae may declare a breach of the Lender Contract if any of the circumstances described in the following
table occur.
Category Description
Material Decline in Lender Adjusted
Net Worth
Typically, a decline is material if Lender Adjusted Net Worth declines by more than 25% over a
quarterly reporting period or by more than 40% over two-consecutive quarterly reporting periods.
Decline in Proﬁtability Four or more consecutive quarterly losses accompanied by a decline in Lender Adjusted Net Worth of
30% or more during the same period.
Cross-Default Provisions
The occurrence of any of the following (to the extent not cured within any applicable cure period in
the applicable agreement):
• a breach by the seller/servicer on a credit or funding facility, including warehouse or servicing
advance lines of credit;
• a breach by any seller/servicer’s aﬃliate or related entity in any of its obligations with Fannie Mae,
including parental guarantees;
• a breach of any agreements with any other creditors where such breach involves an amount that
exceeds 3% of the seller/servicer’s Lender Adjusted Net Worth;
• a breach of, or an impairment of any rights contained in any agreement that is material to the
seller/servicer's origination of loans eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, servicing of Fannie Mae loans, the
ﬁnancial or business condition or operations of the seller/servicer, or the seller/servicer's ability to
comply with the Lender Contract;
• the occurrence of any change event, or circumstance which has or could reasonably be expected to
have a material adverse eﬀect on the seller/servicer's origination of loans, servicing of Fannie Mae
loans, on the ﬁnancial or business condition or operations of the seller/servicer, or the ability to
comply with the Lender Contract.
An impairment of rights is any event that may restrict the ability of the seller or servicer to conduct
its business, continue to sell loans, or service any loan assets in the regular course of its business.
The seller/servicer must provide Fannie Mae with written notiﬁcation in the form of an updated
Lender Record Information ( Form 582) submission and email notiﬁcation to the Changes in Lender
Organization mailbox (see E-1-02, List of Contacts) within ﬁve business days of the occurrence of any
of the foregoing.
Recourse Obligation
Fannie Mae may permit a seller/servicer to take on credit recourse obligations, provided the seller/servicer
meets certain requirements. Fannie Mae will assess the ﬁnancial strength of the seller/servicer to determine
whether the seller/servicer can take on credit recourse obligations and, if permitted, whether the seller/servicer
must post collateral or provide other forms of risk reduction measures to secure the additional obligations.
Business Continuity Management and Disaster Recovery
Published June 3, 2026
139
Fannie Mae requires seller/servicer to have a Business Continuity Plan. This plan must include Business
Continuity Procedures and Disaster Recovery Procedures, as deﬁned in the Supplement. It must also identify
business processes critical to the continuation of services and operations including those necessary to comply
with obligations the seller/servicer has to Fannie Mae under the Lender Contract. The seller/servicer's Business
Continuity Plan, Business Continuity Procedures and Disaster Recovery Procedures must meet the requirements
of the Supplement. 
Additionally, the seller/servicer must ensure it and any subservicers, third-party originators, outsourcing ﬁrms,
and third-party vendors used by the seller/servicer implement and maintain disaster recovery and business
continuity procedures. These procedures must ensure the ability to regain critical business operations if there is
a disruption or disaster. This includes back-up systems, procedures and processes in the event of the expiration
or termination of any contract that is material for seller/servicer's servicing of Fannie Mae loans, origination of
loans for sale to Fannie Mae, or ability to comply with the Lender Contract. The lender must provide a copy of its
Business Continuity Plan and Business Continuity Procedures to Fannie Mae upon Fannie Mae's written request.
 
Audit and Management Control Requirements
The seller/servicer must have internal audit and management control procedures to evaluate and monitor the
overall quality of its loan production and servicing processes, as applicable. At a minimum:
The procedures must be independent of all key functions of the loan manufacturing process and the
servicing processes that they review, so that such procedures provide an objective and unbiased
evaluation that adds value and improves the seller/servicer’s operations.
The seller/servicer’s lines of reporting must reﬂect the independence of the audit process at all levels,
resulting in activities that are conducted in an unbiased manner and without quality compromises
resulting from internal inﬂuences or conﬂicts of interest.
The audit function must not share any reporting lines with the functional areas that it reviews.
The audit function must report directly to the seller/servicer’s senior management and/or board of
directors. Exceptions are permitted in situations in which the size of the seller/servicer’s organization is
insuﬃcient to support adequate resources to allow for separation of these functions. In those situations,
the seller/servicer’s audit plan must include the rationale for the lack of separation as well as the controls
that have been established to mitigate the risks associated with the lack of separation of these functions.
The procedures must be consultative, so that they help the seller/servicer accomplish its objectives by
bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the eﬀectiveness of risk
management, control, and governance processes.
Written Policies and Procedures
The seller should have eﬀective and fully documented written policies and/or procedures that ensure that its
staﬀ, and any outsourcing and third-party vendors used by the seller, consistently comply with Fannie Mae's
requirements. This may include providing training to its staﬀ and reviewing staﬃng needs on an ongoing basis.
Published June 3, 2026
140
Management of Vendors and Other Third-party Service Providers
Lenders must have written procedures for the approval and management of vendors and other third-party
service providers. The procedures must comply with the business continuity requirements in the Supplement if
the seller/servicer or any subservicer contracts with a vendor or third-party service provider for any critical
servicing functions or ability to comply with the Lender Contract.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-10 November 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-10 November 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
A4-1-02, Submission of Financial Statements and Reports