SECTION: A4-1-03
TITLE: Report of Changes in the Seller/Servicer’s Organization
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2024
PAGES: 162-164
---
Published June 3, 2026
144
Mae's consideration at the later of:
the time of the seller/servicer's approval in accordance with A4-1-01, Maintaining Seller/Servicer
Eligibility, or
Fannie Mae's most recent selling operational or servicing quality review; and
any change, event, or circumstance that has or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse
eﬀect on the lender's origination of loans, the servicing of Fannie Mae loans, or on the ﬁnancial or
business condition or operations of the seller/servicer, or the ability to comply with the Lender Contract;
any change in principal oﬃcers, or any change in owners or partners with a direct or indirect interest of
5% or more in the company.
Note: The Authorization for Veriﬁcation of Credit and Business References (Form 1001) must also be
submitted within ﬁve business days to reﬂect any change in principal oﬃcers, or any change in owners
or partners with a direct or indirect interest of 5% or more in the company.
See Fannie Mae's website for information on obtaining user IDs to access and submit the online  Form 582  and
the AFS.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-11 December 13, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
 
A4-1-03, Report of Changes in the Seller/Servicer’s Organization
(05/01/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the reporting of changes in the seller/servicer’s organization.
Published June 3, 2026
145
Report of Changes in the Seller/Servicer’s Organization
Report of Changes in the Seller/Servicer’s Organization
The seller/servicer must send us 60 days’ advance written notice of any proposed major change in its
organization to allow us adequate time to provide our prior written approval or notice of non-objection or
objection, where required. The written notice must include copies of any ﬁlings with, or approvals from, the
seller/servicer’s state or other regulatory authority. The seller/servicer is also required to provide immediate
written notice to us if a regulatory agency assumes a participatory role in the management of the
seller/servicer’s operations.
A seller/servicer’s failure to provide adequate written notice of or obtain prior written approval or notice of non-
objection (where required) for such contemplated changes is a breach of the Lender Contract.
The seller/servicer must contact its customer account team for additional guidance or may email the notice to
the Changes in Lender Organization mailbox (see E-1-02, List of Contacts).
In addition to advance written notice, major changes of the following types require Fannie Mae’s prior written
approval of or notice of non-objection before the change is made.
✓ Type of Change
 Any mergers, consolidations, or reorganizations
 The sale of all or substantially all of the seller/servicer’s assets or the purchase of all or
substantially all of the assets of another Fannie Mae-approved seller or servicer
 
Any substantial change in ownership (including a new owner or partner with a 5% or more
interest), regardless of whether it is by direct or indirect means (indirect means include any
change in the ownership of the seller/servicer’s parent, any owner of the parent, or any other
beneﬁcial owner of the seller/servicer that does not own a direct interest in the seller/servicer)
 A change in an organization’s legal structure or charter
Other major changes require advance written notiﬁcation in the form of an email to the Changes in Lender
Organization mailbox (see E-1-02, List of Contacts), but do not require Fannie Mae’s prior written approval or
notice of non-objection. Examples of those types of changes are described below.
✓ Examples
 The change of any senior management personnel (including principal oﬃcers or decision
makers)
Published June 3, 2026
146
✓ Examples
 A signiﬁcant change in the lender’s ﬁnancial position
 A change in the legal name of the lender’s organization
 A change in the address of its principal place of business
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
 
A4-1-04, Submission of Irrevocable Limited Powers of Attorney
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on irrevocable limited powers of attorney, including:
Submitting Irrevocable Limited Power of Attorney (Form 520) to Fannie Mae
Change in Seller/Servicer Legal Name
Submitting Irrevocable Limited Power of Attorney (Form 520) to Fannie Mae
Seller/servicers must complete and deliver ﬁve executed original Form 520 to Fannie Mae at the address
indicated on the instructions to the form.  See below for an exception to this requirement.
All signatures on the  Form 520 must be provided using traditional in-person ink-signed methods. Irrespective of
the law of the place of execution, the notary may not use the remote in-person method of signatory
authentication and signature witnessing or eNotarization, including remote online notarization, to satisfy the
notarization of the Form 520.
The Form 520 does not modify the duties and obligations of the parties under the Lender Contract. The Form
520 is a free-standing remedial instrument intended to preserve and protect Fannie Mae's interest in loans
serviced by the seller/servicer. In the event of exigent circumstances, Fannie Mae will use the power of attorney
at its sole discretion (for example, when for whatever reason a seller/servicer is unable or unwilling to execute