SECTION: B2-1.5-04
TITLE: Escrow Accounts
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2020
PAGES: 238-239
---
Published June 3, 2026
220
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
 
B2-1.5-04, Escrow Accounts (04/01/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on escrow accounts, including:
Escrow Accounts
Escrow Waivers
Escrow Accounts
First mortgages generally must provide for the deposit of escrow funds to pay as they come due, including
taxes, ground rents, premiums for property insurance, and premiums for ﬂood insurance. However, escrow
deposits for the payment of premiums for borrower-purchased mortgage insurance (if applicable) are
mandatory. For the calculation of the monthly real estate tax payment lenders must comply with all federal and
state regulations in calculating the amount to be collected for any established escrow account.
Fannie Mae does not require an escrow deposit for property or ﬂood insurance premiums for an individual unit in
a condo, co-op, or PUD when the project in which the unit is located is covered by a blanket insurance policy
purchased by the homeowners’ association or co-op corporation.
If a special assessment levied against the property was not paid at loan closing, the borrower’s payment must
include appropriate accruals to ensure that any estimated annual payment toward the assessment will be
accumulated by the time it comes due.
For certain reﬁnance transactions where the borrower is ﬁnancing real estate taxes in the loan amount, an
escrow account is required, subject to applicable laws or regulations. See B2-1.3-03, Cash-Out Reﬁnance
Transactions for more information.
Escrow Waivers
Fannie Mae advocates the establishment of an escrow account for the payment of taxes and insurance,
particularly for borrowers with blemished credit histories or ﬁrst-time homeowners.
Unless required by law, lenders may waive escrow account requirements for an individual ﬁrst mortgage,
provided the standard escrow provision remains in the mortgage loan legal documents. Lenders cannot waive
Published June 3, 2026
221
an escrow account for certain reﬁnance transactions (see above) or for the payment of premiums for borrower-
purchased mortgage insurance (if applicable). When the requirement for an escrow account is waived, the
lender must retain Fannie Mae’s right to enforce the requirement in appropriate circumstances.
Lenders must have a written policy governing the circumstances under which escrow accounts may be waived.
When a lender permits escrow waivers, subject to the mortgage documents and applicable law, the lender’s
written policies must provide that the waiver not be based solely on the LTV ratio of a loan, but also on whether
the borrower has the ﬁnancial ability to handle the lump sum payments of taxes, insurance, and other items
described above.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-02 April 01, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B2-1.5-05, Principal Curtailments (11/06/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on principal curtailments, including:
Overview
Acceptable Curtailments
Documentation
Delivery Instructions
Overview
A principal curtailment is the application of funds used to reduce the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage
loan. Fannie Mae permits certain curtailments prior to loan delivery provided the delivery data reﬂects the
curtailment as described below.