SECTION: B2-1.2-01
TITLE: Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratios
EFFECTIVE: 06/01/2022
PAGES: 179-181
---
Published June 3, 2026
161
Section B2-1.2, LTV, CLTV, HCLTV, and Subordinate Financing
B2-1.2-01, Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratios (06/01/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on LTV ratios, including:
Calculation of the LTV Ratio
Sales Price and Appraised Value Used by DU
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Calculation of the LTV Ratio
The maximum allowable LTV ratio for a ﬁrst mortgage is based on a number of factors including, the
representative credit score, the type of mortgage product, the number of dwelling units, and the occupancy
status of the property.
The following table describes the requirements for calculating LTV ratios for a ﬁrst mortgage transaction. The
result of these calculations must be truncated (shortened) to two decimal places, then rounded up to the
nearest whole percent. For example:
94.01% will be delivered as 95%, and
80.001% will be delivered as 80%.
The rounding rules noted above also apply to the CLTV and HCLTV ratio calculations. Lenders' systems must
contain rounding methodology that results in the same or a higher LTV ratio.
Underwriting
Method
Type of Transaction Calculation of the LTV Ratio
1
Manual and DU Purchase money
transactions
Divide the original loan amount by the property
value. (The property value is the lower of the sales
price or the current appraised value.)
Manual and DU Reﬁnance transactions
Divide the original loan amount by the property
value. (The property value is the current appraised
value.)
Published June 3, 2026
162
Underwriting
Method
Type of Transaction Calculation of the LTV Ratio
1
Manual and DU Co-op share loans See Calculating the LTV ratio for Co-op Share Loans
in B4-2.3-04, Loan Eligibility for Co-op Share Loans.
Manual and DU Mortgages with ﬁnanced
mortgage insurance
Divide the original loan amount plus the ﬁnanced
mortgage insurance by the property value. (The
property value is the lower of the sales price or the
current appraised value.)
Note: The LTV ratio calculations shown above may diﬀer for certain mortgage loans. For details on
these diﬀerences, see  B2-1.3-05, Payoﬀ of Installment Land Contract Requirements; B5-2-03,
Manufactured Housing Underwriting Requirements; B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-
Permanent Financing: Single-Closing Transactions; B5-3.3-01, HomeStyle Refresh for Improvements on
Existing Properties; B5-3.2-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral Considerations; B5-5.1-02,
Community Seconds Loan Eligibility;   B5-5.2-02, Loans with Resale Restrictions: Eligibility, Collateral
and Delivery Requirements; B5-5.3-03, Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and
Collateral Requirements; and  B7-1-01, Provision of Mortgage Insurance.
Refer to the Eligibility Matrix  for maximum allowable LTV ratios.
Sales Price and Appraised Value Used by DU
DU uses information in the loan application to determine the sales price and appraised value it uses to calculate
the LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios.
DU uses the amounts entered in the following data ﬁelds in the online loan application:
Sales price = Line A + Line B + Line C (in Section L4)
Line A = Sales Contract Price (the sales price for purchase transactions, or the cost of construction for
construction transactions).
Line B = Improvements, Renovations,  and Repairs (the cost of these items for HomeStyle Renovation
transactions).
Line C = Land Value (For certain construction or manufactured home transactions the cost or value of the
land if the borrower acquired the lot separately).
Appraised value = Appraised Property Value (in Section 4a)
Note: If the Appraised Property Value is not present, DU will use the Estimated Property Value. The
Appraised Property Value must be entered (when available) and the loan caseﬁle must be resubmitted.
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Published June 3, 2026
163
An LLPA may apply to certain mortgages based on the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio and representative credit score.
These LLPAs are in addition to any other price adjustments that are otherwise applicable to the particular
transaction. See the Loan-Level Price Adjustment (LLPA) Matrix .
As deﬁned in the LTV ratio, the original loan amount is the amount of the loan as indicated by the note.1
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-05 June 01, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
B2-1.2-02, Combined Loan-to-Value (CLTV) Ratios (12/04/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information on CLTV ratios, including:
Calculation of the CLTV Ratio
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Calculation of the CLTV Ratio
For ﬁrst mortgage loans that are subject to subordinate ﬁnancing, the lender must calculate the LTV ratio and
the CLTV ratio. For ﬁrst mortgage loans that are subject to a HELOC, see B2-1.2-03, Home Equity Combined
Loan-to-Value (HCLTV) Ratios. For all other subordinate liens, see B2-1.2-04, Subordinate Financing for
additional information.
The CLTV ratio is determined by dividing the sum of the items listed below by the lesser of the sales price or the
appraised value of the property.
the original loan amount of the ﬁrst mortgage,
the drawn portion (outstanding principal balance) of a HELOC, and
the unpaid principal balance of all closed-end subordinate ﬁnancing. (With a closed-end loan, a borrower
draws down all funds on day one and may not make any payment plan changes or access any paid-down