SECTION: B2-1.2-03
TITLE: Home Equity Combined Loan-to-Value (HCLTV) Ratios
EFFECTIVE: 02/23/2016
PAGES: 182-183
---
Published June 3, 2026
164
principal once the loan is closed.)
Note: For each subordinate liability, in order for the lender to accurately calculate the CLTV ratio for
eligibility and underwriting purposes, the lender must determine the drawn portion of all HELOCs, if
applicable, and the unpaid principal balance for all closed-end subordinate ﬁnancing. If any
subordinate ﬁnancing is not shown on a credit report, the lender must obtain documentation from the
borrower or creditor.
If the borrower discloses, or the lender discovers, new (or increased) subordinate ﬁnancing after the
underwriting decision has been made, up to and concurrent with closing, the lender must re-underwrite the
mortgage loan. (See B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios, for additional information.)
Note: The CLTV ratio calculation may diﬀer for certain mortgage loans. For details on these
diﬀerences, see  B2-1.3-05, Payoﬀ of Installment Land Contract Requirements; B5-2-03, Manufactured
Housing Underwriting Requirements; B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing:
Single-Closing Transactions; B5-3.2-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral Considerations;
B5-3.3-01, HomeStyle Refresh for Improvements on Existing Properties; B5-5.1-02, Community
Seconds Loan Eligibility; and  B5-5.2-02, Loans with Resale Restrictions: Eligibility, Collateral and
Delivery Requirements; and B5-5.3-03, Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and
Collateral Requirements.
Refer to the  Eligibility Matrix  for allowable CLTV ratios.
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
An LLPA applies to certain mortgages with subordinate ﬁnancing. These LLPAs are in addition to any other price
adjustments that are otherwise applicable to the particular transaction. See the  Loan-Level Price Adjustment
(LLPA) Matrix.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B2-1.2-03, Home Equity Combined Loan-to-Value (HCLTV) Ratios
(02/23/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HCLTV ratios, including:
Calculation of the HCLTV Ratio
Permanently Modiﬁed HELOCs
Published June 3, 2026
165
Calculation of the HCLTV Ratio
For ﬁrst mortgages that have subordinate ﬁnancing under a HELOC, the lender must calculate the HCLTV ratio.
This is determined by dividing the sum of the items listed below by the lesser of the sales price or appraised
value of the property.
the original loan amount of the ﬁrst mortgage,
the full amount of any HELOCs (whether or not funds have been drawn), and
the unpaid principal balance (UPB) of all closed-end subordinate ﬁnancing.
Note: For each subordinate liability, in order for the lender to accurately calculate the HCLTV ratio for
eligibility and underwriting purposes, the lender must determine the maximum credit line for all
HELOCs, if applicable, and the unpaid principal balance for all closed-end subordinate ﬁnancing. If any
subordinate ﬁnancing is not shown on a credit report, the lender must obtain documentation from the
borrower or creditor.
If the borrower discloses, or the lender discovers, new (or increased) subordinate ﬁnancing after the
underwriting decision has been made, up to and concurrent with closing, the lender must re-
underwrite the mortgage loan. (See B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios, for additional information.)
Permanently Modiﬁed HELOCs
If the lender determines the HELOC has been permanently modiﬁed and the outstanding UPB is less than the
permanently modiﬁed HELOC, the lender must use the modiﬁed HELOC amount in calculating the HCLTV ratio
for eligibility purposes and for delivery. The lender must obtain appropriate documentation that the HELOC has
been permanently modiﬁed and include this documentation in the loan ﬁle.
If the outstanding UPB is greater than the permanently modiﬁed HELOC, the lender must use the outstanding
UPB to calculate the HCLTV ratio for eligibility purposes and for delivery. As noted above, the lender must obtain
appropriate documentation and include that documentation in the loan ﬁle.
In no case may the CLTV ratio exceed the HCLTV ratio.
Note: The HCLTV ratio calculation may diﬀer for certain mortgage loans. For details on these
diﬀerences, see B2-1.3-05, Payoﬀ of Installment Land Contract Requirements; B5-2-03, Manufactured
Housing Underwriting Requirements; B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing:
Single-Closing Transactions; B5-3.3-01, HomeStyle Refresh for Improvements on Existing Properties;
B5-3.2-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral Considerations; and B5-5.1-02, Community
Seconds Loan Eligibility.
Note: Refer to the Eligibility Matrix for maximum allowable HCLTV ratios.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.