SECTION: B2-1.3-01
TITLE: Purchase Transactions
EFFECTIVE: 11/05/2025
PAGES: 188-191
---
Published June 3, 2026
170
Section B2-1.3, Loan Purpose
B2-1.3-01, Purchase Transactions (11/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on purchase transaction eligibility requirements, including:
General Purchase Transaction Eligibility Requirements
Requirements for Purchase Transactions with LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV Ratios of 95.01 – 97%
Non-Arm's Length Transactions
Purchase of Preforeclosure or Short Sale Properties — Allowable Fees, Assessments, and Payments
General Purchase Transaction Eligibility Requirements
A purchase money transaction is one in which the proceeds are used to ﬁnance the acquisition of a property or
to ﬁnance the acquisition and rehabilitation of a property. The table below provides the general requirements
for purchase money mortgage transactions. Certain mortgage loans and products may have diﬀerent eligibility
requirements for purchase mortgage transactions. If applicable, the diﬀerences will be stated in the speciﬁc
mortgage loan or product topic section.
✓ General Requirements
 The minimum borrower contribution requirements for the selected mortgage loan type must
be met.
 
Proceeds from the transaction must be used to
• ﬁnance the acquisition of the subject property,
• ﬁnance the acquisition and rehabilitation of the subject property,
• convert an interim construction loan or term note into permanent ﬁnancing, or
• pay oﬀ the outstanding balance on the installment land contract or contract for deed.
Published June 3, 2026
171
✓ General Requirements
 
Proceeds from the transaction may not be used to give the borrower cash back other than the
following:
• an amount representing reimbursement for the borrower’s overpayment of fees and
charges, including refunds that may be required in accordance with certain federal laws or
regulations. The settlement statement must clearly indicate the refund, and the loan ﬁle must
include documentation to support the amount and reason for the refund; and
• a legitimate prorated real estate tax credit in locales where real estate taxes are paid in
arrears.
Note: If the borrower receives cash back for a permissible purpose as listed above, the lender
must conﬁrm the minimum borrower contribution requirements associated with the selected
mortgage product, if any, have been met. Reimbursements or refunds permitted above may
also be applied as a principal curtailment in accordance with B2-1.5-05, Principal Curtailments.
A prorated real estate tax credit is not an interested party contribution, and it cannot be
considered when determining if the borrower has suﬃcient assets for the transaction.
Exception: When the Closing Disclosure indicates an escrow account has been established
and includes the portion of real estate taxes owed by the property seller for the period they
owned the property, a prorated real estate tax credit from the property seller may oﬀset all or
a portion of the funds needed for the escrow account.
Requirements for Purchase Transactions with LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV Ratios of
95.01 – 97%
If the LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV ratio exceeds 95% for a purchase transaction, the following requirements apply.
Criteria Requirements
LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV Ratio
95.01 to 97%
Note: The CLTV ratio can be up to 105% if the
subordinate lien is a Community Seconds loan.
Loan Type Fixed-rate loans with terms up to 30 years.
Note: High-balance and ARM loans are not permitted.
Property and Occupancy
One-unit principal residence. Manufactured housing is
not permitted, unless the property meets the MH
Advantage requirements.
All borrowers must occupy the property unless there
is a Community Seconds subordinate lien.
Published June 3, 2026
172
Criteria Requirements
Borrower Eligibility
At least one borrower must be a ﬁrst-time
homebuyer, as indicated on the Form 1003 in the
Declarations section, when at least one borrower
responds “No” to the question about having an
ownership interest in a property in the last three
years.
Homeownership Education  See  B2-2-06, Homeownership Education and
Housing Counseling for requirements.
Underwriting Method DU only
Reserves Reserves requirements will be determined by DU.
Other All other standard Selling Guide policies apply.
Note: The above requirements do not apply to HomeReady mortgage loans. See  B5-6-01,
HomeReady Mortgage Loan and Borrower Eligibility, for requirements for HomeReady mortgage loans
with LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV ratios of 95.01 – 97%.
Non-Arm's Length Transactions
Non-arm's length transactions are purchase transactions in which there is a relationship or business aﬃliation
between the seller and the buyer of the property. Fannie Mae allows non-arm’s length transactions for the
purchase of existing properties unless speciﬁcally forbidden for the particular scenario, such as delayed
ﬁnancing. For the purchase of newly constructed properties, if the borrower has a relationship or business
aﬃliation (any ownership interest, or employment) with the builder, developer, or seller of the property, Fannie
Mae will only purchase mortgage loans secured by a principal residence. Fannie Mae will not purchase mortgage
loans on newly constructed homes secured by a second home or investment property if the borrower has a
relationship or business aﬃliation with the builder, developer, or seller of the property.
Purchase of Preforeclosure or Short Sale Properties — Allowable Fees,
Assessments, and Payments
Borrowers may pay additional fees, assessments, or payments in connection with acquiring a property that is a
preforeclosure or short sale that are typically the responsibility of the seller or another party. Examples of
additional fees, assessments, or payments include, but are not limited to, the following:
short sale processing fees (also referred to as short sale negotiation fees, buyer discount fees, short sale
Published June 3, 2026
173
buyer fees);
Note: This fee does not represent a common and customary charge and therefore must be
treated as a sales concession if any portion is reimbursed by an interested party to the
transaction.
payment to a subordinate lienholder; and
payment of delinquent taxes or delinquent HOA assessments.
The following requirements apply:
The borrower (buyer) must be provided with written details of the additional fees, assessments, or
payments and the additional necessary funds to complete the transaction must be documented.
The servicer that is agreeing to the preforeclosure or short sale must be provided with written details of
the fees, assessments, or payments and has the option of renegotiating the payoﬀ amount to release its
lien.
All parties (buyer, seller, and servicer) must provide their written agreement of the ﬁnal details of the
transaction which must include the additional fees, assessments, or payments. This can be accomplished
by using the Request for Approval of Short Sale or Alternative Request for the Approval of Short Sale
forms published by the U.S. Treasury or any alternative form or addendum.
The settlement statement must include all fees, assessments, and payments included in the transaction.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-03 May 07, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
 