SECTION: B2-1.4-04
TITLE: Temporary Interest Rate Buydowns
EFFECTIVE: 08/07/2024
PAGES: 219-223
---
Published June 3, 2026
201
the lender previously agreed to a conversion modiﬁcation despite the fact that the loan documents did
not give the borrower an option to convert. In this instance, lenders must provide a modiﬁcation
agreement to document the conversion and obtain a title bring-down through the date of the recordation.
See Riders & Addenda for current standard riders or addenda.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B2-1.4-04, Temporary Interest Rate Buydowns (08/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on temporary interest rate buydowns, including:
Provisions for Temporary Interest Rate Buydown Plans
Buydown Funds Provided by Interested Parties to the Transaction
Lender-Funded Buydowns
Buydown Agreements
Eligible Transaction Types
Qualifying the Borrower
Terms of the Buydown
Buydown Funds
Disposing of Buydown Funds
MBS Pool Considerations
Delivery Requirements
Provisions for Temporary Interest Rate Buydown Plans
The table below provides the general requirements under which Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes loans
subject to temporary interest rate buydown plans.
✓ General Requirements for Loans with Temporary Interest Rate Buydown Plans
 
Temporary interest rate buydowns are allowed on ﬁxed-rate mortgages and certain ARM plans
for principal residences or second homes provided the rate reduction does not exceed 3%,
and the rate increase will not exceed 1% per year.
 The buydown plan must be a written agreement between the party providing the buydown
funds and the borrower.
Published June 3, 2026
202
✓ General Requirements for Loans with Temporary Interest Rate Buydown Plans
 All of the terms of the buydown plan must be disclosed to Fannie Mae, the mortgage insurer,
and the property appraiser.
 
The mortgage instruments must reﬂect the permanent payment terms rather than the terms
of the buydown plan. In no event may the buydown plan change the terms of the mortgage
note.
Buydown Funds Provided by Interested Parties to the Transaction
When the source of the buydown funds is an interested party to the property sale or purchase transaction,
Fannie Mae’s interested-party contribution limits apply. (See B3-4.1-02, Interested Party Contributions (IPCs).)
Lender-Funded Buydowns
When the lender funds the buydown, the buydown agreement must require that the funds in the buydown
account be transferred to the new servicer if the mortgage is included as part of a subsequent transfer of
servicing.
Buydown Agreements
The buydown agreement must provide that the borrower is not relieved of the obligation to make the mortgage
payments required by the terms of the mortgage note if, for any reason, the buydown funds are not available.
The buydown agreement may include an option for the buydown funds to be returned to the borrower or to the
lender, if it funded the buydown, if the mortgage is paid oﬀ before all of the funds have been applied.
A copy of the buydown agreement must be included in the delivery documentation for the mortgage.
Eligible Transaction Types
The following table lists the transaction types that are eligible and ineligible for temporary buydowns:
Transaction Type Eligibility
Principal residence Eligible
Second homes Eligible
Published June 3, 2026
203
Transaction Type Eligibility
Investor properties Ineligible
Cash-out reﬁnance transactions Ineligible
ARMs Restricted
For speciﬁc ARM plan restrictions, refer to the following:
B2-1.4-02, Adjustable-Rate Mortgages (ARMs), and
B5-4.1-02, Texas Section 50(a)(6) Loan Eligibility.
Qualifying the Borrower
When underwriting loans that have a temporary interest rate buydown, the lender must qualify the borrower
based on the note rate without consideration of the bought-down rate.
For qualifying requirements, see B3-6-04, Qualifying Payment Requirements.
Terms of the Buydown
Fannie Mae does not place a limit on the total dollar amount of an interest rate buydown.
The total dollar amount of an interest rate buydown must be consistent with the terms of the buydown period.
An interest rate buydown plan must provide for:
a buydown period not greater than 3 years, and
increases of not more than 1% in the portion of the interest rate paid by the borrower in each 1-
year interval.
More frequent changes are permitted as long as the total annual increase does not exceed 1%.
The table below provides a list of buydown types.
Interest rate
buydown type When a temporary reduction in the initial rate of a loan provides for...
Moderate
• a diﬀerence of 2 percentage points or less between the actual note rate and
the "bought-down" interest rate, and
• a buydown period of two years or less.
Published June 3, 2026
204
Interest rate
buydown type When a temporary reduction in the initial rate of a loan provides for...
Signiﬁcant
• a diﬀerence of more than 2 percentage points between the actual rate and
the "bought-down" rate, or
• a buydown period greater than two years.
 
Buydown Funds
The table below provides Fannie Mae requirements for treatment of buydown funds.
✓ Requirement
 Buydown accounts must be established and fully funded by the time the lender submits the
mortgage to Fannie Mae for purchase or securitization.
 Funds for buydown accounts must be deposited into custodial bank accounts.
Note: Buydown funds cannot be included in accounts with the lender’s other corporate funds.
 The borrower’s only interest in buydown funds is to have them applied toward payments as
they come due under the note.
 Buydown funds are not refundable unless the mortgage is paid oﬀ before all the funds have
been applied.
 Buydown funds cannot be used to pay past-due payments.
 Buydown funds cannot be used to reduce the mortgage amount for purposes of determining
the LTV ratio.
Disposing of Buydown Funds
If the mortgage is liquidated or the property is sold during the buydown period, the lender should dispose of the
buydown funds in the following manner:
Published June 3, 2026
205
Status of Mortgage Disposition of Funds
The mortgage is paid in full.
The funds should be credited to the total amount
required to pay oﬀ the mortgage, or they may be
returned to either the borrower or the lender as
speciﬁed in the buydown agreement.
The mortgage is foreclosed. The funds are used to reduce the mortgage debt.
The property is sold and the mortgage is
assumed by the purchaser.
The funds may continue to be used to reduce the
mortgage payments under the original terms of the
buydown plan.
MBS Pool Considerations
When a lender includes a mortgage with a signiﬁcant interest rate buydown—such as a 3-2-1 temporary interest
rate buydown—in an MBS pool, there are restrictions on the maximum amount of loans that can have a
signiﬁcant temporary buydown. See C3-2-01, Determining Eligibility for Loans Pooled into MBS, for additional
information.
Delivery Requirements
The following special feature codes must be delivered, depending on the type of interest-rate buydown:
loans with moderate interest rate buydowns - SFC 009, or
loans with signiﬁcant interest rate buydowns - SFC 014.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-05 August 07, 2024
 
Section B2-1.5, Other Loan Attributes and Related Policies