SECTION: B2-1.5-02
TITLE: Loan Eligibility
EFFECTIVE: 06/05/2024
PAGES: 225-236
---
Published June 3, 2026
207
Loan limits for modiﬁed loans are based on the original loan amount of the loan and not on the unpaid principal
balance of the loan at the time of modiﬁcation or acquisition by Fannie Mae. A modiﬁed loan with an original
loan amount exceeding the current loan limit is not eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae, even though the
balance at the time of the modiﬁcation may be at or below the current applicable loan limit.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
B2-1.5-02, Loan Eligibility (06/05/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on mortgage loan eligibility requirements, including:
Ability to Repay Loan Eligibility Requirements
Acceptable Loan Terms
HOEPA and State Higher-Priced Loans
Impact of Special Assessments on Maximum Loan Amount
Premium Pricing
Private Transfer Fee Covenants
Age of Loan
Property Value for Loans Sold More than Four Months from Note Date
Seasoned Loans
Modiﬁed Loans
Nonstandard Payment Collection Options
Ability to Repay Loan Eligibility Requirements
The following provisions apply to loans with application dates on or after January 10, 2014.
Note: As to any loan for which the original application was made before January 10, 2014, but which
was assumed on or after January 10, 2014, and subsequently purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae,
then, for eligibility purposes, the application date is considered to be the date on which Truth in
Lending Act disclosure requirements were triggered with respect to such assumption.
Published June 3, 2026
208
ATR Covered Loans. An ATR Covered Loan is a loan subject to the TILA’s ability to repay requirements under
Regulation Z and is otherwise not an ATR Exempt Loan (deﬁned below). An ATR Covered Loan must meet the
following requirements in addition to the other underwriting and eligibility requirements in the Selling Guide:
have a loan term not exceeding 30 years (see Acceptable Loan Terms below);
be a fully amortizing loan, as deﬁned in Regulation Z:
the loan must have regular periodic payments that are substantially equal that do not result in an
increase in the principal balance or allow the borrower to defer repayment of principal; 
have total points and fees as described below under Points and Fees Limitations; and
have an APR-APOR spread as described below under APR-APOR Spread Limitations.
The ATR Covered Loan requirements apply to acquisitions of newly originated loans (including government
mortgage loans). These requirements do not apply to certain assumptions or modiﬁcations of existing Fannie
Mae loans regardless of the dates on which the loans being assumed or modiﬁed were originally closed. Refer to
the regulation for the applicable requirements.
ATR Exempt Loans. An ATR Exempt Loan is, with certain exceptions, a loan that either is not subject to TILA or
is exempt from the ability to repay requirements in Regulation Z (12 CFR § 1026.43(a) or (d)). For purposes of
determining whether a loan is an ATR Exempt Loan, lenders must follow the TILA and Regulation Z deﬁnitions.
Note: The classiﬁcation of certain transactions for TILA purposes and for eligibility and underwriting
purposes by Fannie Mae do not always align. For example, Fannie Mae deﬁnes a four-unit property
where the borrower occupies one of the units as a “principal residence.” If under TILA such a loan is
considered to be for commercial or business purposes, it will be exempt from TILA and therefore
considered an ATR Exempt Loan by Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes ATR Exempt Loans as long as such loans meet the other eligibility and
underwriting requirements described in this Guide.
Points and Fees Limitations. For purposes of these requirements, “total points and fees” and “total
loan amount” must be calculated in accordance with Regulation Z (12 CFR § 1026.32).
ATR Covered Loans: Total points and fees may not exceed 3% of the total loan amount or such diﬀerent
amount in accordance with the qualiﬁed mortgage provisions of Regulation Z (12 CFR § 1026.43(e)(3)(i)).
If a lender makes a cure payment in the amount and by the time required by 12 CFR § 1026.43(e)(3)(iii),
such loan satisﬁes this requirement.
ATR Exempt Loans: Total points and fees may not exceed 5% of the total loan amount. This
determination may take into account either of the following adjustments:
permitted reduction of total points and fees pursuant to 12 CFR § 1026.31(h); or
in the case of loans not subject to TILA, restitution to the borrower of at least that portion of total
points and fees that exceeded 5% at the time of loan closing.
APR-APOR Spread Limitations. Eﬀective for loans with applications dates on and after July 1, 2021, the APR-
APOR spread is the maximum diﬀerence by which the loan's APR cannot exceed the APOR. (Note: Loans with
application dates before July 1, 2021 provided the loans otherwise meet the Revised QM Rule.)
ATR Covered Loans: The spread may not exceed 2.25% or a diﬀerent amount as speciﬁed in the
Published June 3, 2026
209
Revised General QM Rule, calculated in accordance with the provisions of that rule.
Note: For ARMs with initial ﬁxed periods of ﬁve years or less, the APR must be calculated using the
maximum interest rate that could apply during the ﬁrst ﬁve years after the ﬁrst payment is due.
ATR Exempt Loans: The spread may not exceed 6.5% or more calculated in accordance with the Revised
General QM rule.
Acceptable Loan Terms
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes loans that have original terms up to 30 years. The term of a ﬁrst mortgage
may not extend more than 30 years beyond the date that is one month prior to the date of the ﬁrst payment.
The minimum original term is 85 months, subject to applicable committing and delivery requirements for whole
loans and loans in MBS.
Exception: The only exception to these requirements is for single-closing construction-to-permanent loans,
which must have a loan term not exceeding 30 years after conversion to permanent ﬁnancing (disregarding the
construction period). See B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing: Single-Closing
Transactions.
HOEPA and State Higher-Priced Loans
A loan that is subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOEPA), as described in
Section 32 of Regulation Z, is not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
In addition, Fannie Mae does not purchase or securitize loans that meet the deﬁnitions under the following laws
of the state in which the property is located (“state higher-priced loans”), regardless of whether any provision of
such state law is preempted by federal law with respect to a particular loan or for a particular originator:
State Loan Type Description
Arkansas High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after
September 1, 2003 that meet the
deﬁnition of “high-cost home loan”
under the Arkansas Home Loan
Protection Act (Ark. Code Ann. §§
23-53-101 et seq.), notwithstanding
the “safe harbor” language contained
in § 23-53-103(5)(B).
Published June 3, 2026
210
State Loan Type Description
Georgia Home Loan
Loans originated between October 1,
2002 and March 7, 2003 that are
governed by the Georgia Fair
Lending Act (Ga. Code Ann. §§ 7-6A-1
et seq.).
Georgia High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2003 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high-cost home loan” under the
Georgia Fair Lending Act (Ga. Code
Ann. §§ 7-6A-1 et seq.), as amended
eﬀective March 7, 2003.
Illinois High risk home loan
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2004 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high risk home loan” under the
Illinois High Risk Home Loan Act (§
815 Ill. Comp. Stat. 137/1 et seq.).
Indiana High cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2005 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high cost home loan” under the
Indiana Home Loan Practices Act
(Ind. Code Ann. §§ 24-9-1 et seq.),
notwithstanding the “safe harbor”
language contained in § 24-9-1-1.
Kentucky High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after
September 1, 2003 that meet the
deﬁnition of “high-cost home loan”
under the Kentucky high-cost home
loan statute (Ky. Rev. Stat. §
360.100).
Published June 3, 2026
211
State Loan Type Description
Maine High-rate, high-fee mortgage
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2008 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high-rate, high-fee mortgage” under
the Maine Consumer Credit Code –
Truth in Lending (Me. Rev. Stat. Tit.
9-A §§ 8-101 et seq.).
Massachusetts High-cost home mortgage
loan
Loans delivered on or after
November 7, 2004 that meet the
deﬁnition of “high cost home
mortgage loan” under the
Massachusetts Predatory Home Loan
Practices Act (Mass. Gen. Laws Ann.
ch.183C).
New Jersey High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after
November 27, 2003 that meet the
deﬁnition of “high-cost home loan”
under the New Jersey Home
Ownership Security Act of 2002 (N.J.
Rev. Stat. §§ 46:10B-22 et seq.).
New Mexico High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2004 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high-cost home loans” under the
New Mexico Home Loan Protection
Act (N.M. Stat. Ann. §§ 58-21A-1 et
seq.).
New York High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after April 1,
2003 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high-cost home loan” under the New
York Banking Law § 6-l.
New York Subprime home loan
Loans delivered on or after
September 1, 2008 that meet the
deﬁnition of “subprime home loan”
under New York Banking Law § 6-m.
Published June 3, 2026
212
State Loan Type Description
Rhode Island High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after
December 31, 2006 that meet the
deﬁnition of “high-cost home loan”
under the Rhode Island Home Loan
Protection Act (R.I. Gen. Laws §§
34-25.2-1 et seq.), notwithstanding
the exemptions contained in §
34-25.2-11 of the Rhode Island law.
Tennessee High-cost home loan
Loans delivered on or after January 1,
2007 that meet the deﬁnition of
“high-cost home loan” under the
Tennessee Home Loan Protection Act
(Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 45-20-101 et
seq.), notwithstanding the
preemption provision contained in §
45-20-111 of the Tennessee law.
Impact of Special Assessments on Maximum Loan Amount
If special assessments have been levied against the property and they are not paid before or at closing, the
maximum loan amount otherwise available must be reduced by the amount of the unpaid special assessments
(unless suﬃcient deposits to pay them will be collected as part of the loan payment).
If the security property may be subject to liens for taxes and special assessments and the liens are not yet due
and payable, Fannie Mae does not consider these conditions, restrictions, and encumbrances material and does
not require a reduction in the maximum loan amount.
The lender must provide documentation to show that the current installments of taxes and assessments (or
future installments of special assessments that have been levied) - including those which may have been
attached as prior liens, but which are not now in arrears - have been paid or that suﬃcient deposits are being
collected to pay them.
Premium Pricing
Premium pricing refers to situations when a borrower selects a higher interest rate on a loan in exchange for a
lender credit. The lender credit cannot be used to fund any portion of the borrower’s down payment, and should
not exceed the amount needed to oﬀset the borrower’s closing costs.
Any excess lender credit required to be returned to the borrower in accordance with applicable regulatory
requirements is considered an overpayment of fees and charges, and may be applied as a principal curtailment
or returned in cash to the borrower. See the following sections for additional details on lender credits derived
Published June 3, 2026
213
from premium pricing:
B3-4.1-01, Minimum Reserve Requirements
B3-4.1-02, Interested Party Contributions (IPCs)
B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions
B5-5.1-02, Community Seconds Loan Eligibility
Private Transfer Fee Covenants
In accordance with a regulation issued by the Federal Housing Finance Agency on March 16, 2012, as amended,
and codiﬁed at 12 CFR Part 1228 (the “Private Transfer Fee Regulation”), except as provided below, Fannie Mae
will not purchase or securitize loans on properties encumbered by private transfer fee covenants if those
covenants were created on or after February 8, 2011, unless permitted by the Private Transfer Fee Regulation.
The lender must establish policies and/or procedures to ensure that the loans it delivers to Fannie Mae, whether
or not the loans were originated by the lender, are not secured by properties encumbered with a private
transfer fee that is unacceptable under the Private Transfer Fee Regulation. The policies and/or procedures will
be reviewed by Fannie Mae as part of the lender’s operational review process.
As with all other federal, state, and local laws, the lender (and any third-party originator it uses) must be aware
of, and in full compliance with, the Private Transfer Fee Regulation. (Refer to the Private Transfer Regulation for
further detail concerning acceptable and unacceptable private transfer fee covenants, as well as the deﬁnitions
of “private transfer fee” and “private transfer fee covenant.”)
Fannie Mae will purchase loans secured by properties encumbered by excepted transfer fee covenants (as
deﬁned in the Private Transfer Fee Regulation), including those that are part of shared equity transactions. See
B5-5.3-02, Shared Equity Transactions: General Requirements .
Age of Loan
To be eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae on a ﬂow basis, a loan must be no more than six months old
measured from the ﬁrst payment date to the "Purchase Ready" date (whole loans) or the MBS pool issue date
(MBS loans).
For example, if a whole loan is in "Purchase Ready" status in May 2023 or an MBS loan is in a May 1, 2023
issued pool, the ﬁrst payment date can be no earlier than December 1, 2022.
NOTE: HomeStyle Renovation loans that are not delivered until renovation is complete (and delivered
with SFC 279) can be sold up to 15 months after the note date. See  B5-3.2-01, HomeStyle Renovation
Mortgages  for additional requirements.
Property Value for Loans Sold More than Four Months from Note Date
Published June 3, 2026
214
For loans that are more than four months old from the date of the note to the date the loan is sold to Fannie
Mae, the current value of the property cannot be less than the original value. If the lender is unable to warrant
that the current value of the property is not less than the original value of the property, the loan is not eligible
for sale to Fannie Mae by the lender except on a negotiated basis. 
Seasoned Loans
Seasoned loans are loans that are more than one year old from the ﬁrst payment date to:
the loan purchase date for whole loans, or
the pool issue date for MBS loans.
Note: Fannie Mae restricts purchase or securitization of seasoned loans to those that are delivered as
a negotiated transaction. Contact Fannie Mae customer account team for additional information.
The table below provides the requirements for seasoned loans.
✓ Seasoned Loan Requirements
 Seasoned loans may not be included in Fannie Majors MBS pools. See Chapter C3–6, Pooling
Loans into Fannie Majors.
 The lender’s underwriting of the borrower’s credit and the security property for a seasoned
loan must meet the current requirements set out in this Guide.
 The borrower has not had a 30-day delinquency in the 12-month period that precedes the
lender’s delivery of the loan to Fannie Mae.
 If the current borrower assumed the loan and has owned the property for less than 12 months,
they must have had no 30-day delinquencies since purchasing the property.
 
The borrower’s ability to pay must not have changed adversely.
Note: If the loan has been assumed, the new borrower’s credit must be fully documented and
underwritten in accordance with the same standards used for new loans, unless the transfer of
ownership was one of the exempt transactions that legally prohibit a credit review. See the
Servicing Guide for an explanation of exempt transactions.
 
The current value of the property cannot be less than the original value. If the lender is unable
to provide this warranty, the loan is not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae by the lender
except on a negotiated basis.
Published June 3, 2026
215
✓ Seasoned Loan Requirements
 The status of the title to the property must not have been aﬀected adversely.
 The loan must satisfy Fannie Mae’s current applicable mortgage eligibility requirements.
 If the loan is secured by a unit in a condo, co-op, or PUD project, the project must satisfy
Fannie Mae’s current applicable project eligibility requirements.
 
If the loan was modiﬁed prior to delivery to Fannie Mae, it must be a modiﬁcation that is
eligible for delivery in accordance with the requirements of this Guide as described below
under Modiﬁed Loans.
 
Except to the extent otherwise expressly permitted in the Selling Guide ( A2-3.2-01, Loan
Repurchases and Make Whole Payments Requested by Fannie Mae), or the Servicing Guide
with respect to the redelivery of loans to Fannie Mae, the loan being delivered cannot be one
that was required to be repurchased by a secondary market investor, government-sponsored
enterprise, or private institutional investor other than Fannie Mae for any documentation,
underwriting, property valuation, or other deﬁciencies and/or issues with the property
(including project eligibility if the property is in a condo, co-op, or PUD project), borrower
credit or other deﬁciencies or for any other reason.
Modiﬁed Loans
A modiﬁed loan is a loan that was legally modiﬁed after loan closing in a way that changed any of the loan
terms or attributes reﬂected in the original note. In general, loans with material modiﬁcations, such as changes
to the original loan amount, interest rate, ﬁnal maturity, or product structure, are not eligible for delivery to
Fannie Mae.
A loan whose note was corrected to eﬀect technical or typographical corrections is not considered to be a
modiﬁed loan and is eligible for delivery.  All of the changes must correct errors in the executed documents,
which reﬂect the terms of the original loan transaction. None of the changes can be the result of a subsequent
modiﬁcation or amendment to the original loan amount, interest rate, or other material loan term. The
correction may not result in a change to, or create any inconsistencies with, other legal documents.
Fannie Mae permits the delivery of certain other modiﬁed loans based primarily on whether the loan was owned
or securitized by Fannie Mae prior to the modiﬁcation, or the modiﬁcation of the loan was done in accordance
with a standard product or is common and customary in a certain area.
The table below provides a comprehensive overview of Fannie Mae requirements applicable to the delivery of
modiﬁed loans. If the loan is not eligible in accordance with standard Selling Guide provisions, it may be eligible
in accordance with a variance. Such variances may be subject to additional terms and conditions.
Published June 3, 2026
216
Category of
Modiﬁcation
Owned or
Securitized by
Fannie Mae Prior
to or at Time of
Modiﬁcation?
Eligible for
Delivery to Fannie
Mae After
Modiﬁcation?
Selling Guide or
Servicing Guide
Reference
Converted ARMs
Yes Yes
Selling Guide: See
B2-1.4-03, Convertible
ARMs, for convertible
ARMs that are redelivered
to Fannie Mae after their
removal from an MBS pool
No No N/A
Maturing Balloon with
Conditional Right to
Reﬁnance or Modify
No No N/A
Borrower Principal
Curtailment and Recast
Over Remaining Term
Yes
N/A — No redelivery
required
Servicing Guide: See
Chapter C-1, Processing
Mortgage Loan Payments
No Yes
Selling Guide: See below
and  B2-1.5-05, Principal
Curtailments
Changes to Borrowers Due
to Death, Marriage, or
Other Allowable Property
Transfers
Yes
N/A — No redelivery
required
Servicing Guide: See
Chapter D1–4, Transfers of
Ownership
No No N/A
Single-Closing
Construction-to-Permanent
Financing
No Yes
Selling Guide: See
B5-3.1-02, Conversion of
Construction-to-Permanent
Financing: Single-Closing
Transactions
Published June 3, 2026
217
Category of
Modiﬁcation
Owned or
Securitized by
Fannie Mae Prior
to or at Time of
Modiﬁcation?
Eligible for
Delivery to Fannie
Mae After
Modiﬁcation?
Selling Guide or
Servicing Guide
Reference
New York Consolidation,
Extension, and
Modiﬁcation
No Yes
Selling Guide: See
B8-2-02, Special-Purpose
Security Instruments
Modiﬁcations that Result
in Material Changes to
Loan Terms
No No
Selling Guide: See
Modiﬁed Loans, above
 
Borrower Principal Curtailment and Recast Over Remaining Term
Fannie Mae will purchase a re-amortized loan following the application of a principal curtailment received from
the borrower. The curtailment reduces the principal balance and monthly mortgage payment over the
remaining term of the loan. The following requirements must be met:
The only changes to the original note terms are a corresponding reduction in the principal balance and a
re-amortized reduction to the monthly mortgage payment.
The original note amount must comply with maximum loan limits in eﬀect at the time of acquisition. See 
B2-1.5-01, Loan Limits.
When the loan was underwritten, the borrower was fully qualiﬁed based on the original note amount.
The loan must be delivered with Special Feature Code 76.
The lender must complete an Agreement for Modiﬁcation, Re-Amortization, or Extension of Mortgage
(Form 181), in accordance with the requirements of the Servicing Guide, place a copy in the loan
servicing ﬁle, and deliver the completed documents to the applicable document custodian in accordance
with Selling Guide E-2-01, Required Custodial Documents.
The delivery data must comply with the delivery instructions for principal curtailments.
See  B2-1.5-05, Principal Curtailments for additional requirements related to principal curtailments.
Nonstandard Payment Collection Options
A nonstandard payment collection option is a payment option that permits the borrower to make loan payments
on a schedule other than a monthly basis. If the nonstandard payment collection option terms are included in
the loan documents, then the loan is ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
Lenders may oﬀer nonstandard payment collection plans as part of a separate agreement; however, the loan is
eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae only under the following conditions:
the agreement must not impact the terms and conditions of the mortgage note, nor the reporting or
remittance of payments to Fannie Mae;
Published June 3, 2026
218
the agreement must be cancelable by the borrower without cost; and
the loan must be identiﬁable by the lender such that the information can be provided to Fannie Mae upon
request.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-04 June 05, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-10 November 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 
B2-1.5-03, Legal Requirements (06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on legal requirements, including:
First Mortgage Lien Position