SECTION: B2-1.5-01
TITLE: Loan Limits
EFFECTIVE: 02/02/2022
PAGES: 224-225
---
Published June 3, 2026
206
B2-1.5-01, Loan Limits (02/02/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on loan limits, including:
Overview
Loan Limits Deﬁned
Loan Limits and Modiﬁed Loans
Overview
Fannie Mae can only purchase loans up to a certain dollar amount. This dollar amount is known as the
conforming loan limit. Fannie Mae’s loan limits are imposed under its federal charter as amended by law.
The loan limits apply to all conventional loans delivered to Fannie Mae for whole loan purchase or MBS pool
issuance and are based on the original loan amount of the loan (irrespective of the origination date). The limits
are subject to change annually and vary, depending upon the number of units in the property and the property’s
location. The conforming loan limits are posted on Fannie Mae's website.
Lenders are responsible for ensuring that the original loan amount of each loan does not exceed the applicable
maximum loan limit for the speciﬁc area in which the property is located at the time the loan is delivered to
Fannie Mae.
Loan Limits Deﬁned
Fannie Mae’s ﬁrst mortgage loan limits are deﬁned in terms of baseline (also known as "general") loan limits
and high-cost area loan limits:
The baseline limits apply to the majority of the loans that Fannie Mae purchases.
The high-cost area loan limits apply to loans secured by properties in designated high-cost areas, as
determined by Fannie Mae’s regulator. The high-cost area loan limits vary across the country.
High-balance loans are subject to the high-cost area loan limits. Fannie Mae’s eligibility and delivery
requirements may vary for high-balance loans. See Chapter B5-1, High-Balance Mortgage Loans for additional
information.
If the loan is a ﬁrst lien securing an ownership interest in a co-op corporation, the amount of the ﬁrst lien and
prorated share of the co-op corporation blanket mortgage cannot exceed Fannie Mae’s loan limits.
Fannie Mae has no minimum original loan amount requirement for either whole loans or MBS loans.
Loan Limits and Modiﬁed Loans
Published June 3, 2026
207
Loan limits for modiﬁed loans are based on the original loan amount of the loan and not on the unpaid principal
balance of the loan at the time of modiﬁcation or acquisition by Fannie Mae. A modiﬁed loan with an original
loan amount exceeding the current loan limit is not eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae, even though the
balance at the time of the modiﬁcation may be at or below the current applicable loan limit.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
B2-1.5-02, Loan Eligibility (06/05/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on mortgage loan eligibility requirements, including:
Ability to Repay Loan Eligibility Requirements
Acceptable Loan Terms
HOEPA and State Higher-Priced Loans
Impact of Special Assessments on Maximum Loan Amount
Premium Pricing
Private Transfer Fee Covenants
Age of Loan
Property Value for Loans Sold More than Four Months from Note Date
Seasoned Loans
Modiﬁed Loans
Nonstandard Payment Collection Options
Ability to Repay Loan Eligibility Requirements
The following provisions apply to loans with application dates on or after January 10, 2014.
Note: As to any loan for which the original application was made before January 10, 2014, but which
was assumed on or after January 10, 2014, and subsequently purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae,
then, for eligibility purposes, the application date is considered to be the date on which Truth in
Lending Act disclosure requirements were triggered with respect to such assumption.