SECTION: B2-1.5-05
TITLE: Principal Curtailments
EFFECTIVE: 11/06/2024
PAGES: 239-241
---
Published June 3, 2026
221
an escrow account for certain reﬁnance transactions (see above) or for the payment of premiums for borrower-
purchased mortgage insurance (if applicable). When the requirement for an escrow account is waived, the
lender must retain Fannie Mae’s right to enforce the requirement in appropriate circumstances.
Lenders must have a written policy governing the circumstances under which escrow accounts may be waived.
When a lender permits escrow waivers, subject to the mortgage documents and applicable law, the lender’s
written policies must provide that the waiver not be based solely on the LTV ratio of a loan, but also on whether
the borrower has the ﬁnancial ability to handle the lump sum payments of taxes, insurance, and other items
described above.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-02 April 01, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B2-1.5-05, Principal Curtailments (11/06/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on principal curtailments, including:
Overview
Acceptable Curtailments
Documentation
Delivery Instructions
Overview
A principal curtailment is the application of funds used to reduce the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage
loan. Fannie Mae permits certain curtailments prior to loan delivery provided the delivery data reﬂects the
curtailment as described below.
Published June 3, 2026
222
Acceptable Curtailments
Fannie Mae permits curtailments prior to loan delivery for the following reasons:
The lender may apply a principal curtailment to refund the overpayment of fees or charges paid by the
borrower, in any amount, in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
If the borrower receives more cash back than is permitted for limited cash-out reﬁnances, the lender can
apply a curtailment to reduce the amount of cash back to the borrower to bring the loan into compliance
with the maximum cash-back requirement. The maximum amount of the curtailment cannot exceed the
lesser of $2,500 or 2% of the original loan amount for the subject loan. For example, if the borrower
received $3,500 cash back at closing on a loan amount of $200,000, the lender could apply a $1,500
curtailment prior to delivery to Fannie Mae. This would result in “net cash back” to the borrower of
$2,000, thus meeting Fannie Mae’s limited cash-out reﬁnance requirement.
Fannie Mae also allows additional principal payments remitted by a borrower to prepay the mortgage
loan as permitted by the loan documents. This includes curtailments applied to the principal balance to
reduce the monthly mortgage payment. See  B2-1.5-02, Loan Eligibility.
Lenders must apply these curtailments prior to delivery of the loan to Fannie Mae. Such curtailments may not
be held until after whole loan delivery or for application in the month subsequent to issuance of an MBS.
Fannie Mae permits a lender to apply a curtailment after loan delivery to refund the overpayment of fees or
charges paid by the borrower in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, provided the amount of
the curtailment does not exceed $500. All other curtailments received after loan delivery must be applied in
accordance with the Servicing Guide.
Documentation
If the curtailment is made at the time of closing, the amount must be clearly documented on the settlement
statement. If the curtailment is applied after closing, but before delivery, the loan ﬁle must be documented with
the amount of the curtailment and the reason or source of the curtailment (for example, lender refund or
borrower-initiated), and include any modiﬁcation agreement used to reduce the monthly payment following the
application of the curtailment.
If the lender elects to apply a principal curtailment after delivery to refund the overpayment of fees and charges
as permitted above, the loan ﬁle must be documented with the amount, reason, and source of the curtailment.
 
Delivery Instructions
Refer to the Loan Modiﬁcations Job Aid for the delivery of loans impacted by a curtailment applied prior to the
delivery of the loan to Fannie Mae.
 
Published June 3, 2026
223
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2021-10 November 03, 2021
 
Chapter B2-2, Borrower Eligibility
Introduction
This chapter explains the requirements related to borrower eligibility.
B2-2-01, General Borrower Eligibility Requirements (09/03/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on general borrower eligibility requirements, including:
General Borrower Eligibility Requirements
General Borrower Identity Criteria
Tax Identiﬁcation Numbers
Establishing Borrower Ownership Interest
General Borrower Eligibility Requirements
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes mortgages made to borrowers who are natural persons and have reached
the age at which the mortgage note can be enforced in the jurisdiction where the property is located. There is
no maximum age limit for a borrower.
Exceptions to the requirement that borrowers be natural persons are:
inter vivos revocable trusts,
HomeStyle Renovation mortgages, and