SECTION: B2-2-01
TITLE: General Borrower Eligibility Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 09/03/2025
PAGES: 241-243
---
Published June 3, 2026
223
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2021-10 November 03, 2021
 
Chapter B2-2, Borrower Eligibility
Introduction
This chapter explains the requirements related to borrower eligibility.
B2-2-01, General Borrower Eligibility Requirements (09/03/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on general borrower eligibility requirements, including:
General Borrower Eligibility Requirements
General Borrower Identity Criteria
Tax Identiﬁcation Numbers
Establishing Borrower Ownership Interest
General Borrower Eligibility Requirements
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes mortgages made to borrowers who are natural persons and have reached
the age at which the mortgage note can be enforced in the jurisdiction where the property is located. There is
no maximum age limit for a borrower.
Exceptions to the requirement that borrowers be natural persons are:
inter vivos revocable trusts,
HomeStyle Renovation mortgages, and
Published June 3, 2026
224
land trusts in those states where the beneﬁciary is an individual. (Note: Fannie Mae permits land trusts on
a negotiated basis for states where land trusts are widely accepted.)
See the following for additional information:
B2-1.3-04, Prohibited Reﬁnancing Practices,
B2-2-04, Guarantors, Co-Signers, or Non-Occupant Borrowers on the Subject Transaction
B2-2-05, Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts,
B5-3.2-02, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Loan and Borrower Eligibility, and
Community Land Trusts in B5-5.3-01, Shared Equity Overview.
General Borrower Identity Criteria
A borrower is any applicant (e.g., individually or jointly) whose credit is used for qualifying purposes to
determine ability to meet Fannie Mae’s underwriting and eligibility standards. “Co-borrower” is a term used to
describe any borrower other than the borrower whose name appears ﬁrst on the note.
Lenders must conﬁrm each borrower’s identity prior to the extension of credit. Fannie Mae’s requirements for
borrower identity veriﬁcation are intended to align with lenders’ existing federal obligations under laws requiring
information and document veriﬁcation, including the Department of Treasury's Oﬃce of Foreign Assets Control
(OFAC) regulations and the U.S. Patriot Act. See  A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws, for additional information
concerning borrower identity veriﬁcation.
Tax Identiﬁcation Numbers
Fannie Mae requires that each borrower have a valid Social Security number or Individual Taxpayer
Identiﬁcation Number (ITIN), in addition to meeting existing legal residency and documentation requirements.
(For additional information, see B2-2-02, Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements.)
DU and Loan Delivery may identify data integrity issues pertaining to the borrower’s Social Security number.
Lenders must take steps to resolve any issues, including invalid format, numbers not issued, borrower age/issue
date discrepancies, or Social Security numbers associated with deceased individuals. If a lender cannot resolve
any Social Security number inconsistencies, the lender must validate the Social Security number directly with
the Social Security Administration (SSA). The following requirements apply:
The lender may use one of the two methods listed below to validate a borrower's Social Security number:
Form SSA–89 (Authorization for the Social Security Administration to Release Social Security
Number Veriﬁcation), or
Electronic Consent Based Social Security Number Veriﬁcation (eCBSV) Service.
If using a third-party vendor, the lender must ensure that the vendor goes directly to the SSA to validate
the Social Security number using one of the two methods listed above.
The lender must retain documentation in the loan ﬁle that evidences the validation of the Social Security
number.
The lender must deliver the loan with SFC 162 if the Social Security number was validated through the
SSA but there is a discrepancy identiﬁed with the Social Security number in the credit report, DU, or Loan
Delivery edits.
Published June 3, 2026
225
If the Social Security number cannot be validated with the SSA, the loan is not eligible for sale to Fannie
Mae.
Establishing Borrower Ownership Interest
A borrower must establish ownership interest in the security property and become liable for the note (whether
individually or jointly) by:
signing the security instrument,
signing the mortgage or deed of trust note, and
taking title to the property in the name of the individual borrower(s).
If the security property is held in a life estate established under state property law, the following provisions
apply:
The life tenant (the individual who has the right to possess and use the subject property during their
lifetime) must be a borrower.
One (or more) remaindermen (individuals who have an irrevocable, vested and alienable interest in the
subject property and who will receive full ownership of the subject property upon the death of the life
tenant) may also be co-borrowers.
Both the life tenant and all remaindermen must sign the security instrument to convey their respective
interests in the property.
For additional information, see B2-3-01, General Property Eligibility.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
 
B2-2-02, Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements