SECTION: B2-2-04
TITLE: Guarantors, Co-Signers, or Non-Occupant Borrowers on the Subject Transaction
EFFECTIVE: 09/02/2020
PAGES: 247-250
---
Published June 3, 2026
229
When none of the information above is provided on the online loan application, DU will use the number of
mortgages and HELOCs disclosed on the credit report as the number of ﬁnanced properties.
Note: In order to account for the subject property, DU will add “1” to the number of ﬁnanced
properties on purchase and construction transactions when the REO section, number of mortgages on
the application, or number of mortgages on the credit report are used as the number of ﬁnanced
properties.
After determining the number of ﬁnanced properties, DU will use that value to assess the eligibility of the loan,
the minimum required reserves the lender must verify, and eligibility for HomeReady transactions.
DU will issue a message informing the lender of the number of ﬁnanced properties that DU used and where that
information was obtained (Number of Financed Properties ﬁeld, REO section, number of mortgages on
application, or number of mortgages on credit report). If DU used the information provided in the Number of
Financed Properties ﬁeld or in the REO section, and that information is inaccurate, the lender must update the
data and resubmit the loan caseﬁle to DU. If DU used the number of mortgages and HELOCs on the loan
application or credit report as the number of ﬁnanced properties, and that number is inaccurate, the lender
must provide the correct number in the Number of Financed Properties ﬁeld, or complete the REO section of the
loan application and resubmit the loan caseﬁle to DU.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-05 June 01, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-06 July 07, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
Published June 3, 2026
230
B2-2-04, Guarantors, Co-Signers, or Non-Occupant Borrowers on the
Subject Transaction (09/02/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on guarantors, co-signers, or non-occupant borrowers on the subject transaction,
including:
Deﬁnitions
Down Payment and Qualifying Ratio Requirements for Manually Underwritten Loans
LTV Ratio Requirements for Manually Underwritten Loans
LTV Ratio Requirements for Loan Caseﬁles Underwritten through DU
Deﬁnitions
Guarantors and co-signers are credit applicants who
do not have ownership interest in the subject property as indicated on the title;
sign the mortgage or deed of trust note;
have joint liability for the note with the borrower;
do not have an interest in the property sales transaction, such as the property seller, the builder, or the
real estate agent; and
meet the requirements in  B2-2-01, General Borrower Eligibility Requirements, except for the provisions
related to establishing an ownership interest in the property.
Non-occupant borrowers are credit applicants on a principal residence transaction who
do not occupy the subject property;
may or may not have an ownership interest in the subject property as indicated on the title;
sign the mortgage or deed of trust note;
have joint liability for the note with the borrower(s);
do not have an interest in the property sales transaction, such as the property seller, the builder, or the
real estate agent; and
meet the requirements in  B2-2-01, General Borrower Eligibility Requirements, except for the provisions
related to establishing an ownership interest in the property.
Note: Guarantors, co-signers, and non-occupant borrowers are permitted on purchase, limited cash-
out and cash-out reﬁnance transactions.
Down Payment and Qualifying Ratio Requirements for Manually Underwritten
Published June 3, 2026
231
Loans
For manually underwritten loans, if the income of a guarantor, co-signer, or non-occupant borrower is used for
qualifying purposes, the occupying borrower(s) must make the ﬁrst 5% of the down payment from their own
funds unless:
the LTV or CLTV ratio is less than or equal to 80%; or
the occupying borrower is purchasing a one-unit principal residence and meets the requirements to use
gifts, donated grant funds, or funds received from an employer to pay for some or all of the borrower’s
minimum contribution. See B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts; B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions; and
B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance, for additional information.
Using only the income of the occupying borrower(s) to calculate the DTI ratio, the maximum allowable DTI ratio
is 43%.
Note: This policy applies even if the combined qualifying ratios for the borrower and the guarantor, co-
signer, or non-occupant borrower are well below Fannie Mae’s standard qualifying ratio benchmark.
Minimum credit score and reserve requirements based on the LTV ratio and combined qualifying ratios
of all borrowers must be met per the Eligibility Matrix. See Section B3–5.4, Nontraditional Credit
History, for additional requirements that apply when the transaction includes a borrower who does not
have a credit score.
For additional information, see B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios.
LTV Ratio Requirements for Manually Underwritten Loans
For manually underwritten loans, if the income of a guarantor, co-signer, or co-borrower is used for qualifying
purposes, and that guarantor, co-signer, or co-borrower will not occupy the subject property, the maximum LTV,
CLTV, and HCLTV ratio may not exceed 90% (unless a Community Seconds is part of the transaction, in which
case the CLTV ratio may not exceed 105% where permitted in the Eligibility Matrix.
LTV Ratio Requirements for Loan Caseﬁles Underwritten through DU
DU analyzes the risk factors in the loan caseﬁle for all borrowers on the mortgage loan. Regardless of whether
an individual borrower will be occupying the property as their principal residence, DU will consider the income,
assets, liabilities, and credit of that borrower.
For DU loan caseﬁles with a guarantor, co-signer, or co-borrower who will not occupy the subject property, the
maximum LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratio may not exceed 95% (unless a Community Seconds is part of the
transaction, in which case the CLTV ratio may not exceed 105% where permitted in the Eligibility Matrix.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
232
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
 
B2-2-05, Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts (10/31/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on revocable trusts, including:
Overview
Inter Vivos Revocable Trust as Eligible Mortgagor
Lender Requirements
Trust and Trustee Requirements
Eligible Property and Occupancy Types
Underwriting Considerations
Title and Title Insurance Requirements
Loan Delivery Data
Overview
Except as expressly provided elsewhere in the Selling Guide, Fannie Mae only accepts individuals as credit-
qualifying borrowers. In addition, Fannie Mae normally deems property in which no borrower has an ownership
interest as ineligible collateral. However, to accommodate the use of inter vivos trusts as an estate planning
tool, Fannie Mae provides an exception for property held by inter vivos revocable trusts created by credit-
qualifying borrowers.
Inter Vivos Revocable Trust as Eligible Mortgagor
An inter vivos revocable trust is a trust that
an individual creates during their lifetime;
becomes eﬀective during its creator’s lifetime; and
can be changed or canceled by its creator at any time, for any reason, during that individual’s lifetime.
Fannie Mae will accept an inter vivos revocable trust that has an ownership interest in the security property as
an eligible mortgagor (a party to the security instrument) for all transaction types, provided it complies with the
requirements in this topic.