SECTION: B2-2-05
TITLE: Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts
EFFECTIVE: 10/31/2017
PAGES: 250-253
---
Published June 3, 2026
232
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
 
B2-2-05, Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts (10/31/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on revocable trusts, including:
Overview
Inter Vivos Revocable Trust as Eligible Mortgagor
Lender Requirements
Trust and Trustee Requirements
Eligible Property and Occupancy Types
Underwriting Considerations
Title and Title Insurance Requirements
Loan Delivery Data
Overview
Except as expressly provided elsewhere in the Selling Guide, Fannie Mae only accepts individuals as credit-
qualifying borrowers. In addition, Fannie Mae normally deems property in which no borrower has an ownership
interest as ineligible collateral. However, to accommodate the use of inter vivos trusts as an estate planning
tool, Fannie Mae provides an exception for property held by inter vivos revocable trusts created by credit-
qualifying borrowers.
Inter Vivos Revocable Trust as Eligible Mortgagor
An inter vivos revocable trust is a trust that
an individual creates during their lifetime;
becomes eﬀective during its creator’s lifetime; and
can be changed or canceled by its creator at any time, for any reason, during that individual’s lifetime.
Fannie Mae will accept an inter vivos revocable trust that has an ownership interest in the security property as
an eligible mortgagor (a party to the security instrument) for all transaction types, provided it complies with the
requirements in this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
233
Note: A trust must meet Fannie Mae’s revocability and other eligibility requirements at the time the
loan is delivered. Trust eligibility is not aﬀected if the trust documents contain a provision that the
trust will, in the future, become irrevocable upon the death of one of the settlors. However, such a
change in the trust structure after delivery of the mortgage loan may aﬀect the eligibility of the trust
as a mortgagor in a subsequent loan transaction.
Lender Requirements
A lender delivering a loan that has an inter vivos revocable trust as mortgagor is responsible for:
determining that both the trust and the mortgage satisfy Fannie Mae eligibility criteria and
documentation requirements;
determining under the laws of the states in which it does business that it can originate mortgages to
validly created inter vivos revocable trusts that meet the terms and conditions speciﬁed by Fannie Mae;
and
completing a review of the mortgage documentation, applicable state law, and the trust documents to
ensure that title insurers provide full title insurance coverage without exceptions for the trust or the
trustees for inter vivos revocable trusts in that state. (See Title and Title Insurance Requirements below
for additional information.)
Legal document requirements are described in B8-5-02, Inter Vivos Revocable Trust Mortgage Documentation
and Signature Requirements. Also see E-2-04, Signature Requirements for Mortgages to Inter Vivos Revocable
Trusts, for signature requirements under diﬀerent inter vivos revocable trust scenarios.
Trust and Trustee Requirements
The inter vivos revocable trust must be established by one or more natural persons, solely or jointly. The
primary beneﬁciary of the trust must be the individual(s) establishing the trust. If the trust is established jointly,
there may be more than one primary beneﬁciary as long as the income or assets of at least one of the
individuals establishing the trust will be used to qualify for the mortgage.
The trustee(s) must include either:
the individual establishing the trust (or at least one of the individuals, if there are two or more); or
an institutional trustee that customarily performs trust functions in and is authorized to act as trustee
under the laws of the applicable state.
The trustee(s) must have the power to mortgage the security property for the purpose of securing a loan to the
individual (or individuals) who are the borrower(s) under the mortgage or deed of trust note.
Note: In the event the originally named trustee is unable or unwilling to serve, and the trust
instrument has a mechanism for appointment of a successor trustee, the trust can properly act
through the successor trustee.
Published June 3, 2026
234
Eligible Property and Occupancy Types
All property and occupancy types are eligible. For properties that are the borrower's principal residence, at least
one individual establishing the trust must occupy the security property and sign the loan documents.
Underwriting Considerations
The loan must be underwritten with at least one individual establishing the trust as borrower. Additional
individuals, including other individuals establishing the trust, may also be considered co-borrowers if those
individuals’ credit will be used to qualify for the loan.
Title and Title Insurance Requirements
The lender must retain in the individual loan ﬁle a copy of any trust documents that the title insurance company
required in making its determination on the title insurance coverage.
The following requirements apply to title and title insurance:
Title held in the trust does not in any way diminish Fannie Mae’s rights as a creditor, including the right to
have full title to the property vested in Fannie Mae should foreclosure proceedings have to be initiated to
cure a default under the terms of the mortgage.
The title insurance policy ensures full title protection to Fannie Mae.
The title insurance policy states that title to the security property is vested in the trustee(s) of the inter
vivos revocable trust.
The title insurance policy does not list any exceptions with respect to the trustee(s) holding title to the
security property or to the trust.
Title to the security property is vested solely in the trustee(s) of the inter vivos revocable trust, jointly in
the trustee(s) of the inter vivos revocable trust and in the name(s) of the individual borrower(s), or in the
trustee(s) of more than one inter vivos revocable trust.
Loan Delivery Data
Only the information related to the individual(s) establishing the inter vivos revocable trust whose credit is used
to qualify for the loan should be provided at the time of loan delivery, such as the borrower name and Social
Security number. The name of the inter vivos revocable trust cannot be included within the loan delivery data.
A loan that has an inter vivos revocable trust as a mortgagor must be delivered with Special Feature Code 168
(in addition to any other special feature codes that may also be applicable to the transaction).
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
235
B2-2-06, Homeownership Education and Housing Counseling
(11/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on homeownership education and housing counseling, including:
Overview
Compliance with Law
Deﬁnitions
Transactions that Require Homeownership Education
Meeting the Homeownership Education Requirement
Housing Counseling
Completion of Supplemental Consumer Information Form (Form 1103)
Additional Resources
Summary of Homeownership Education and Housing Counseling Options
Overview
Fannie Mae believes that credit and underwriting guidelines alone are not always enough to assess a borrower’s
readiness for homeownership. High-quality homeownership education and housing counseling can provide the
borrower with additional information and resources to make informed decisions that support long-term
homeownership sustainability. Fannie Mae requires programs that are aligned with the National Industry
Standards (NIS) for Homeownership Education and Counseling or the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) Counseling Program, or provided by a HUD-approved counseling agency.
Compliance with Law
All education, collection, and counseling eﬀorts must comply with the requirements of applicable federal and
state laws, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, and the Fair
Credit Reporting Act.
Deﬁnitions
The following deﬁnitions apply to these requirements:
Homeownership Education: Education with an established curriculum and instructional goals, provided
in a group, classroom setting, or via other formats, that covers homeownership topics such as the home-
buying process, how to maintain a home, budgeting, and the importance of good credit.
Housing Counseling: One-on-one assistance that addresses unique ﬁnancial circumstances and housing
issues, and focuses on overcoming speciﬁc obstacles to achieve housing goals. Counseling
includes topics such as repairing credit, locating cash for a down payment, recognizing predatory lending
practices, understanding fair lending and fair housing requirements, avoiding foreclosure, and resolving a