SECTION: B2-2-02
TITLE: Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 07/28/2015
PAGES: 243-244
---
Published June 3, 2026
225
If the Social Security number cannot be validated with the SSA, the loan is not eligible for sale to Fannie
Mae.
Establishing Borrower Ownership Interest
A borrower must establish ownership interest in the security property and become liable for the note (whether
individually or jointly) by:
signing the security instrument,
signing the mortgage or deed of trust note, and
taking title to the property in the name of the individual borrower(s).
If the security property is held in a life estate established under state property law, the following provisions
apply:
The life tenant (the individual who has the right to possess and use the subject property during their
lifetime) must be a borrower.
One (or more) remaindermen (individuals who have an irrevocable, vested and alienable interest in the
subject property and who will receive full ownership of the subject property upon the death of the life
tenant) may also be co-borrowers.
Both the life tenant and all remaindermen must sign the security instrument to convey their respective
interests in the property.
For additional information, see B2-3-01, General Property Eligibility.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
 
B2-2-02, Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
226
(07/28/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on non–U.S. citizen borrower eligibility requirements.
Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements
Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements
Fannie Mae purchases and securitizes mortgages made to non–U.S. citizens who are lawful permanent or non-
permanent residents of the United States under the same terms that are available to U.S. citizens. Fannie Mae
does not specify the precise documentation the lender must obtain to verify that a non–U.S. citizen borrower is
legally present in the United States. The lender must make a determination of the non–U.S. citizen’s status
based on the circumstances of the individual case, using documentation it deems appropriate. By delivering the
mortgage to Fannie Mae, the lender represents and warrants that the non–U.S. citizen borrower is legally
present in this country.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B2-2-03, Multiple Financed Properties for the Same Borrower
(11/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on multiple ﬁnanced properties for the same borrower, including:
Limits on the Number of Financed Properties
Reserve Requirements
Applying the Multiple Financed Property Policy to DU Loan Caseﬁles
Limits on the Number of Financed Properties
The following table describes the limits that apply to the number of ﬁnanced properties a borrower may have.