SECTION: B2-3-05
TITLE: Properties Affected by a Disaster
EFFECTIVE: 09/03/2025
PAGES: 282-284
---
Published June 3, 2026
264
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
 
B2-3-05, Properties Aﬀected by a Disaster (09/03/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on properties aﬀected by a disaster, including:
Overview
Property Eligibility Requirements
Value Acceptance Oﬀers Following a Disaster
Age of Documentation Requirements
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract requires the lender to warrant for each loan it delivers to Fannie
Mae that the property is not damaged by ﬁre, wind, or other cause of loss and that there are no proceedings
pending for the partial or total condemnation of the property. The lender also warrants that the loan conforms to
all applicable requirements in the Selling Guide, including the requirement that the loan is an acceptable
investment. Finally, the lender represents and warrants that it knows of nothing involving the loan or the
property that can reasonably be expected to cause the loan to become delinquent or adversely aﬀect the
mortgage's value or marketability.
Property Eligibility Requirements
The lender must be able to make the warranties that are described above. Therefore, before delivery of a loan
to Fannie Mae where the property may have been damaged by a disaster, the lender is expected to take
prudent and reasonable actions to determine whether the condition of the property may have materially
Published June 3, 2026
265
changed. The lender is responsible for determining if an inspection of the property and/or new appraisal is
necessary to support this warranty. If a property is located in a condo or co-op project, both the condition of the
unit and the condition of the building in which the unit is located must be assessed.
Lenders should use the following criteria when determining if the loan can be delivered to Fannie Mae:
If the property has been damaged and the damage does not aﬀect the safety, soundness, or structural
integrity of the property and the repair items are covered by insurance, the lender may deliver the loan
to Fannie Mae. In these circumstances, the lender must obtain documentation of the professional
estimates of the repair costs and must ensure that suﬃcient funds are available for the borrower's
beneﬁt to guarantee the completion of the repairs.
If the property was damaged and the damage is uninsured or the damage aﬀects the safety, soundness,
or structural integrity of the property, the property must be repaired before the loan is delivered to
Fannie Mae.
These requirements are necessary to support the lender’s property representations and warranties and apply
through the end of the delivery process which is the whole loan purchase date or MBS settlement date. For DU
loan caseﬁles with a value acceptance or value acceptance + property data oﬀer, the lender may exercise the
oﬀer as long as they have complied with the above requirements with regard to property condition and repairs.
This applies in addition to the value acceptance requirements in B4-1.4-10, Value Acceptance and B4-1.4-11,
Value Acceptance + Property Data.
 
Note: The above requirements do not apply to high LTV reﬁnance loans. See B5-7-02, High LTV
Reﬁnance Underwriting, Documentation, and Collateral Requirements for the New Loan for additional
information. For delivered loan requirements, see the Servicing Guide, Chapter D1-3.
DU is updated periodically to incorporate ZIP codes included in FEMA-Declared Disaster Areas eligible for
Individual Assistance. Fannie Mae may also add areas impacted by other disasters or emergencies at its
discretion. New loan caseﬁles for properties in those ZIP codes are excluded from consideration for a new value
acceptance or value acceptance + property data oﬀer.
Value Acceptance Oﬀers Following a Disaster
After Fannie Mae has received an acceptable appraisal that was performed following a disaster, that appraisal
can serve as the basis for a future value acceptance or value acceptance + property data oﬀer. Lenders may
exercise these oﬀers in accordance with the requirements in B4-1.4-10, Value Acceptance and B4-1.4-11, Value
Acceptance + Property Data.
Age of Documentation Requirements
When a loan is secured by a property located in a FEMA-Declared Disaster Area eligible for individual assistance,
Fannie Mae provides additional ﬂexibilities. The following requirements apply:
The underwriting documentation, including credit reports and veriﬁcations of income and assets, must be
dated no more than 180 days before the note date.
Lenders may disregard the message in the DU Underwriting Findings Report that indicates if the
Published June 3, 2026
266
loan caseﬁles has not already closed, the credit report has expired.
The appraisal must be dated no more than 180 days before the note date. Lenders must comply with the
property eligibility requirements above.
Lenders who wish to receive representation and warranty relief oﬀered by the DU validation service must
continue to comply with all conditions in the DU Underwriting Findings Report, including the close by
date.
Loans originated in accordance with the age of documentation ﬂexibilities, must be delivered to Fannie
Mae no later than two years from the date of the disaster declaration by FEMA.
See B5-4.2-02, Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities for information related to certain
ﬂexibilities oﬀered for a disaster related limited cash-out transaction.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Subpart B3, Underwriting Borrowers
Introduction
This subpart contains borrower underwriting policies for conventional mortgage loans that are sold to Fannie
Mae. Fannie Mae oﬀers lenders two options for conducting a comprehensive risk assessment–automated
underwriting through DU or manual underwriting. Both methods include an evaluation of the borrower’s equity
investment, credit history, liquid reserves, reliable and recurring income, and the cumulative eﬀect that these
and other risk factors have on mortgage loan performance.