SECTION: B3-1-01
TITLE: Comprehensive Risk Assessment
EFFECTIVE: 11/05/2025
PAGES: 285-286
---
Published June 3, 2026
267
Chapter B3-1, Manual Underwriting
Introduction
This chapter provides lenders with information on the comprehensive risk assessment approach to manual
underwriting.
B3-1-01, Comprehensive Risk Assessment (11/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the comprehensive risk assessment approach to underwriting, including:
Overview
Comprehensive Risk Assessment
Overview
Fannie Mae’s underwriting policies include an evaluation of the borrower’s (or spouse’s to the extent required
by applicable law) equity investment, credit history, liquid reserves, reliable and recurring income, and the
cumulative eﬀect that these and other risk factors have on mortgage loan performance. Fannie Mae’s
underwriting policies enable the lender to consider various scenarios in evaluating a borrower’s willingness and
capacity to repay the mortgage loan. The lender must conﬁrm that information provided by the borrower during
the loan application process is accurate and complete; include documentation in the loan ﬁle that supports the
lender’s assessment of the borrower’s credit history, employment and income, assets, and other ﬁnancial
information used for qualifying; conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of each mortgage loan application;
and render a decision to either approve or decline the mortgage loan application.
Fannie Mae oﬀers lenders two options for conducting a comprehensive risk assessment–automated underwriting
through DU or manual underwriting. Both methods include an evaluation of the borrower’s equity investment,
credit history, liquid reserves, reliable and recurring income, and the cumulative eﬀect that these and other risk
factors have on mortgage loan performance.
Lenders that choose to manually underwrite a mortgage application are expected to follow the comprehensive
risk assessment approach. Under this approach, lenders evaluate certain key risk elements to assess the overall
level of delinquency risk.
Lenders are fully responsible for:
evaluating the delinquency risk of each loan;
reviewing the credit report, as well as all other credit information, to determine that the credit report
meets Fannie Mae’s requirements, that the data evaluated was accurate, and that the borrower has the
capacity to repay the mortgage loan;
Published June 3, 2026
268
assessing the adequacy of the property as collateral for the mortgage requested;
determining whether or not the loan meets Fannie Mae's eligibility requirements as fully described in this
Guide;
determining whether or not it is appropriate to deliver the mortgage loan to Fannie Mae; and
fully documenting the assessment and the documentation on which the assessment was based.
Comprehensive Risk Assessment
Lenders must evaluate the overall level of serious delinquency risk that is present in each mortgage application
by taking into consideration any layering of risk factors, the signiﬁcance of risk factors, and the overall risks
present in the mortgage application. The Eligibility Matrix provides a solid foundation for assessing the risk of a
manually underwritten loan and identiﬁes the risk elements to evaluate for each transaction type.
The lender's determination of the mortgage delinquency risk, the assessment of the adequacy of the property
as security for the mortgage, the determination of whether the mortgage satisﬁes Fannie Mae's mortgage
eligibility criteria, and the acceptability of the documentation in the mortgage ﬁle should all enter into the
decision on whether to deliver the mortgage to Fannie Mae.
The lender must fully document the results of its comprehensive risk assessment and ﬁnal underwriting decision
and ensure that the information used to reach its comprehensive risk assessment is valid, accurate, and
substantiated.
For a more precise or deﬁnitive recommendation for determining whether to deliver a given mortgage to Fannie
Mae, the lender should submit the mortgage application to DU. DU evaluates the probability of future serious
delinquency and arrives at an underwriting recommendation by relying on a comprehensive examination of risk
factors in a mortgage application. Furthermore, DU is the standard by which Fannie Mae assesses the
delinquency risk on all mortgages sold to Fannie Mae.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement-SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
Chapter B3-2, Desktop Underwriter (DU)
Introduction