SECTION: B3-2-11
TITLE: DU Underwriting Findings Report
EFFECTIVE: 09/07/2022
PAGES: 316-317
---
Published June 3, 2026
298
For example, if a borrower’s credit report indicates that the borrower had a previous foreclosure, but the DU
Underwriting Findings report does not reference the foreclosure, a reporting or data transfer error may have
occurred, thus preventing DU from considering the foreclosure in its analysis of the loan. The lender must take
action to ensure that the information is considered in the risk analysis.
Non-Applicant Debts/Accounts
In a small number of caseﬁles, credit reports may include accounts identiﬁed as possible non-applicant accounts
(or with another similar notation). DU will include these tradelines in the credit risk assessment, and will also
include the accounts in the DTI ratio when provided on the loan application. See B3-6-05, Monthly Debt
Obligations for the requirements.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B3-2-11, DU Underwriting Findings Report (09/07/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the DU Underwriting Findings report, including:
Overview
Potential Red Flag Messages
Overview
The DU Underwriting Findings report summarizes the overall underwriting recommendation and eligibility
component of the loan caseﬁle and lists certain steps necessary for the lender to complete the processing of the
loan ﬁle.
Speciﬁc messages are provided for each individual loan caseﬁle. These detailed messages are designed to
assist lenders in processing and closing loans. However, the level of documentation recommended by DU may
Published June 3, 2026
299
not be adequate for every borrower and every situation.
The DU Underwriting Findings report is divided into sections. Each section contains a diﬀerent type of message.
Certain messages will be provided based on the DU credit risk assessment. For example, some messages are
returned only on Approve recommendations, while other messages are returned only on Refer with Caution
recommendations.
Potential Red Flag Messages
DU provides a number of “potential red ﬂag” messages designed to help the lender detect inconsistencies in the
loan caseﬁle. Neither the presence nor absence of these messages alters the lender’s responsibility to ensure
accurate information in all areas of the loan process or otherwise comply with applicable law, including the Fair
Credit Reporting Act.
Note: The appearance of these messages does not aﬀect the underwriting recommendation from DU.
Rather, they are designed to help lenders detect inconsistencies. Furthermore, the absence of any of
these messages does not indicate or imply Fannie Mae’s acceptance of the data submitted to DU.
The following lists potential red ﬂag messages:
Excessive resubmissions: A message alerts lenders when an unusually high number of loan resubmissions
may be the result of data manipulation.
Frozen credit report: A message alerts lenders when a borrower has frozen their account with one of the
credit repositories.
Potential caseﬁle ID reuse: A message alerts lenders when the subject property address, Doc File ID,
occupancy, or loan purpose have been modiﬁed. The message serves as a reminder that the DU loan
caseﬁle ID is unique to an individual loan and the same caseﬁle ID may not be used to underwrite more
than one loan in DU.
More information can be found in the Desktop Underwriter Potential Red Flags Messages matrix.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-08 September 07, 2022
 
Chapter B3-3, Income Assessment
Introduction