SECTION: B3-2-09
TITLE: Erroneous Credit Report Data
EFFECTIVE: 01/27/2015
PAGES: 311-313
---
Published June 3, 2026
293
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements and Release Notes Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
 
B3-2-08, Out of Scope Recommendations (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Out of Scope recommendations.
Out of Scope Recommendation
Out of Scope Recommendation
An Out of Scope recommendation indicates that DU is unable to underwrite the particular product, mortgage, or
borrower described in the submission.
Any mortgage that receives an Out of Scope recommendation must be manually underwritten.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-2-09, Erroneous Credit Report Data (01/27/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on erroneous credit report data, including:
Erroneous Credit Report Data
Merged Credit Reports and the Impact on DU’s Evaluation
Lender Action Regarding Derogatory Credit Reported in Error
Published June 3, 2026
294
Erroneous Credit Report Data
The lender is responsible for ensuring that credit report data used by DU in its underwriting analysis is accurate.
Signiﬁcant, material credit errors in a borrower’s credit report may have a negative impact on the underwriting
recommendation from DU.
When there is documented evidence of material erroneous credit data, the underwriter should work with the
credit repository to correct the data and resubmit the loan caseﬁle to DU for underwriting. If there is not enough
time to obtain corrected information, or if there are extenuating circumstances that contributed to the
derogatory credit, the lender may manually underwrite the mortgage.
If signiﬁcant material credit errors in the credit report have had a negative impact on the underwriting
recommendation from DU resulting in a Refer with Caution recommendation, the lender may consider
underwriting the loan manually in accordance with this Selling Guide, provided that the loan product or
transaction otherwise allows for delivery of manually underwritten loans.
If the loan complies with Fannie Mae’s standard eligibility and underwriting guidelines, it must be delivered as a
manually underwritten loan with SFC 343. Such manually underwritten loans are not eligible for DU’s limited
waiver of representations and warranties.
Merged Credit Reports and the Impact on DU’s Evaluation
Errors that are the result of the credit merge do not typically aﬀect the credit or risk analysis of the loan
caseﬁle.
DU attempts to identify duplicate tradelines, including public record items, that are the result of the merge, and
ignores duplicate accounts in the credit analysis.
Public record information is frequently duplicated on the credit report because the credit agencies do not
attempt to merge or match items of this severe nature. A public record item may appear in the credit report
three times—once from each repository—but the duplication will not aﬀect the risk analysis of the case.
Lender Action Regarding Derogatory Credit Reported in Error
If it is determined that signiﬁcant derogatory credit has been reported in error, the lender must obtain written
documentation that supports the error. The following types of written documentation support erroneous
information:
a supplement to the credit report
a new mortgage credit report,
documentation from the credit provider that reported the error.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
295
B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the
Credit Report (12/04/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the accuracy of DU data, DU tolerances, and errors in the credit report,
including:
Ensuring DU Data and Delivery Information Accuracy
DU Tolerances for Reﬁnance Transaction Loan Amount Changes
Other Errors in the Credit Data
Non-Applicant Debts/Accounts
Ensuring DU Data and Delivery Information Accuracy
The data submitted to DU must reﬂect the loan as it was closed, including occupancy type, product type,
amortization, loan term, property type, loan purpose, sales price, and appraised value.
Veriﬁcation documents must be reviewed and the veriﬁed values compared to the data submitted to DU. The
terms of the closed loan must match the terms of the ﬁnal loan caseﬁle submission in DU or fall within the
tolerances listed in the following table:
Data Attribute and
Description
Trigger Action Required
• Interest rate increase
• Discrepancies between the
credit report payments and
balances and those listed on
the online loan application,
including the presence of debt
that is on the credit report but
not on the application
• Additional debt(s) disclosed
by the borrower or identiﬁed
by the lender during the
mortgage process
• Veriﬁed income is less than
the income on the loan
application submitted to DU
DU loans — the result of these
changes causes the DTI ratio
recalculated by the lender to
• now exceed 45%, or
• increase by 3 percentage points or
more (if the recalculated DTI ratio is
50% or less)
* See resubmission examples below.
Loan caseﬁle must be
resubmitted to DU