SECTION: B3-2-02
TITLE: DU Validation Service
EFFECTIVE: 02/05/2025
PAGES: 291-299
---
Published June 3, 2026
273
 
B3-2-02, DU Validation Service (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the DU validation service, including:
General Information
Authorized Vendors and Veriﬁcation Reports
Asset Veriﬁcation Reports
Lender Requirements
Validation Results
Income Validation
Employment Validation
Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment Alternative for Employment Validated using an Asset Veriﬁcation
Report
Asset Validation
General Information
The DU validation service oﬀers lenders an opportunity to deliver loans with more certainty. Certain components
of the loan ﬁle – income, employment, and assets – are eligible for validation by DU using electronic veriﬁcation
reports obtained from vendors. When a component of the loan is validated by DU, the loan may be eligible for
representation and warranty enforcement relief related to that component. Diﬀerent lender quality control and
documentation requirements may also apply. See the following for additional information:
A2-2-01, Representations and Warranties Overview,
A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties,
B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns,
B3-3.1-01, General Income Information,
B3-3.2-01, Standards for Employment and Income Documentation,
B3-3.1-02, Tax Return and Transcript Documentation Requirements,
B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment,
  Section B3-3.4, Other Sources of Income,
B3-4.2-01, Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets,
B3-4.2-02, Depository Accounts,
B3-4.4-02, Requirements for Certain Assets in DU,
D1-2-01, Lender Prefunding Quality Control Review Process, and
D1-3-02, Lender Post-Closing Quality Control Review of Approval Conditions, Underwriting Decisions,
Data, and Documentation.
The DU validation service is an optional service available only for conventional loans underwritten through DU.
Lenders are not required to participate in the DU validation service in order for a loan to be underwritten
through DU and may not require a borrower to participate in the DU validation service.
Published June 3, 2026
274
Authorized Vendors and Veriﬁcation Reports
A lender may obtain a veriﬁcation report directly from a “report supplier” or from a “report distributor” as
described below:
Report suppliers have entered into an agreement with Fannie Mae to participate in the DU validation
service. Report suppliers generate the report and send the report data electronically to the DU validation
service. This report reﬂects the report supplier’s name and/or logo.
Report distributors have not entered into an agreement with Fannie Mae, but have an agreement with an
eligible report supplier. The report supplier (not the distributor) sends the report data electronically to the
DU validation service. The veriﬁcation report reﬂects both the report distributor’s name and the name
and/or logo of the applicable report supplier.
The DU Validation Service Veriﬁcation Report Vendors list provides a listing of authorized report suppliers and
report distributors and is available on Fannie Mae’s website.
Asset Veriﬁcation Reports
Asset veriﬁcation reports provided by third-party vendors may include:
a 30- or 60-day report;
data covering up to 12 months (or more) of asset account data;
a report showing a subset of information typically found on an asset veriﬁcation report (for example,
deposit transaction information with no corresponding amount or account balance) intended to be used
to verify employment using direct deposit transactions (a "supplemental asset report").
To validate income or employment using an asset veriﬁcation report, the lender must order an asset veriﬁcation
report with a minimum of 12 months of data from an authorized vendor.
Lender Requirements
No special approval is required from Fannie Mae to use the DU validation service, however, lenders must “opt-
in” to validate income and employment using an asset veriﬁcation report.
When a lender provides the required reports, all loans that are submitted to DU will automatically be assessed
through the DU validation service for validation of the related component.
To participate in the DU validation service, the lender must
have a relationship with, and have entered into a contract for the services provided by, a vendor(s) –
either a report supplier or a report distributor – that is authorized to obtain a veriﬁcation report;
have an agreement with a vendor(s) that
allows for the report supplier to share the information contained within the veriﬁcation report
(obtained by the lender) with Fannie Mae electronically for use by the DU validation service; and
ensures the lender receives, or has access to, the same data that is shared with Fannie Mae
electronically in accordance with A2-4.1-01, Establishing Loan Files; and
establish controls to manage and monitor the vendors in accordance with its own regulatory
Published June 3, 2026
275
requirements.
For loans assessed by the DU validation service, the lender must
obtain borrower authorization to receive the information from the vendor;
conﬁrm that the veriﬁcation report matches the borrower;
ensure information entered by the lender in DU is properly documented;
investigate and resolve any conﬂicting or contradictory information;
retain a copy of all veriﬁcation reports in the loan ﬁle (see A2-4.1-01, Establishing Loan Files for details),
in addition to any other documentation required by DU; and
ensure that the most current version of the veriﬁcation report is used by the DU validation service. If the
lender obtains an updated veriﬁcation report, the lender must resubmit the loan to DU and receive a
message that the component has been validated in order for the representation and warranty
enforcement relief to apply.
Validation Results
When a component of the loan ﬁle is assessed by the DU validation service, three results are possible:
validated, not validated, or unable to be validated. DU will issue a message providing the validation results.
Validated
DU has determined that the information provided on the veriﬁcation report supports the information entered
into DU for the component being validated.
The DU message(s) will indicate that the veriﬁcation report is acceptable documentation to support the
component that has been validated.
Not Validated
DU has determined that the information provided on the veriﬁcation report does not fully support the
information entered into DU for the component of the loan ﬁle eligible for validation.
The DU message(s) will indicate what documentation, in addition to the veriﬁcation report, is required.
Unable to Validate
DU is unable to validate the information entered into DU for the component eligible for validation. This could be
due to DU’s inability to access the veriﬁcation report data, or insuﬃcient data in the report.
The DU message(s) will indicate what documentation is required.
Note: Regardless of the validation result, DU will continue to use the information provided by the
lender in determining the DU underwriting recommendation. The results of the validation service do
not override, impact, or alter any information submitted by the lender.
Income Validation
The following table lists the income types that can be validated, and the documentation that DU will require,
Published June 3, 2026
276
which may be diﬀerent than the standard documentation required in this Guide. For all eligible income types,
the lender must determine the income type, amount, and source and enter this information in the applicable
ﬁeld in DU.
Note: Income types not listed below are not eligible for income validation by DU.
Eligible Income Types Eligible Veriﬁcation Report
Base (non-self-employed)
 
Asset Veriﬁcation Report
 
Employment and Income Veriﬁcation Report
Bonus
Overtime
Commission
Alimony Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Child Support Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Military Income Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Retirement (pension)
Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Tax Return Transcript (Taxpayer Tax Return
Summary Report)
Social Security (retirement, disability,
supplemental, survivor beneﬁts)
Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Tax Return Transcript (Taxpayer Tax Return
Summary Report)
Self-employed (IRS Form 1040 Schedules C or C-
EZ for sole proprietorships only)
Tax Return Transcript (Taxpayer Tax Return
Summary Report)
VA Beneﬁts (Non-educational) Asset Veriﬁcation Report
 
Note: Additional supporting documentation may be required for some income types (such as child
support or alimony).
Income—Additional Information
Published June 3, 2026
277
The following additional information applies to income validated by DU:
If an employment and income veriﬁcation report is used, the vendor must obtain income information
using data obtained from the report supplier’s existing database of employer-provided information.
All income or direct deposit amounts shown on the income or asset veriﬁcation report must be reﬂected
in U.S. dollars.
When DU validates income, the lender
is not required to determine if the borrower is employed by a family member or interested parties
to the property sale or purchase.
must continue to obtain employment veriﬁcation as described in  B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment.
The veriﬁcation report may contain suﬃcient information to satisfy this requirement. See
Employment—Additional Information below.
must review the veriﬁcation report relied upon by DU for validation and
investigate and resolve any conﬂicting or contradictory information, and
when an asset veriﬁcation report is used to validate income, the lender must conﬁrm that
the borrower is listed as an owner of the asset account and that the report reﬂects the
borrower's name as account holder. The lender need only review the report the covering the
period of time (30- or 60- days) required for asset veriﬁcation for the transaction type, or if
no asset veriﬁcation is required for the transaction, the account activity covering the most
recent 30-day period, for these purposes.
Age of Income Document Requirements
Asset Veriﬁcation Reports and Employment and Income Veriﬁcation Reports: The date of the report
must comply with Fannie Mae’s standard age of credit document requirements as outlined in B1-1-03, Allowable
Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns.
Tax Return Transcripts: To ensure that the income validation is completed using the most recent tax
transcripts, the following will be used to determine if the transcript contains the most recent tax return
information. Lenders are not required to comply with the age of credit documents as outlined in B1-1-03,
Allowable Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns, when DU issues the message that income
has been validated.
For loan caseﬁles created on or before April 30, the most recent tax transcript must be provided. The
most recent tax transcript would be for the prior year (current year minus 1). If the prior year tax return
has not yet been ﬁled or the transcript is not yet available, the most recent tax transcript will be the
current year minus 2.
For loan caseﬁles created after April 30, the most recent year tax transcript must be provided for
validation to be completed. The most recent tax transcript will be for the prior year (current year minus
1).
Employment Validation
The following table describes the employment that can be validated and the documentation that DU will require,
which may be diﬀerent than the standard documentation required in this Guide.
Published June 3, 2026
278
Eligible Employment Eligible Veriﬁcation Report
Employment related to the following income
types:
• Base
• Bonus
• Overtime
• Commission 
Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Supplemental Asset Report
Employment and Income Veriﬁcation Report or
Employment Veriﬁcation Report
Military Employment Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Employment—Additional Information
The following additional information applies to employment validated by DU:
If an employment and income veriﬁcation report is used, the vendor must obtain employment information
using data obtained from the report supplier's existing database of employer-provided information.
Income and employment are assessed independently; however, the results of the employment validation
may impact income validation.
When employment is validated by DU, the validation satisﬁes the requirement for verbal veriﬁcation of
employment described in B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment. Lenders must comply with all DU
messages, including ensuring the loan closes by the “Close by Date” stated in the DU employment
validation message.
The lender must review the veriﬁcation report relied upon by DU, including any Employer Disclaimer
information, if applicable, and:
investigate and resolve any conﬂicting or contradictory information, and
when an asset veriﬁcation report is used to validate employment, the lender must conﬁrm that the
borrower is listed as an owner of the asset account and that the report reﬂects the borrower's
name as account holder. The lender need only review the report covering the period of time (30 or
60 days) required for asset veriﬁcation for the transaction type, or if no asset veriﬁcation is
required for the transaction, the account activity covering the most recent 30-day period, for these
purposes.
Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment Alternative for Employment Validated using
an Asset Veriﬁcation Report
When employment is initially validated using an asset veriﬁcation report and the loan will not close by the
"Close by Date" stated in the DU employment validation message, the lender may obtain a supplemental asset
report from an asset veriﬁcation report vendor and either submit it to DU or perform a manual review of the
report to satisfy the verbal veriﬁcation of employment described in  B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment.
When used to reverify employment (whether through an automated or a manual review), the supplemental
asset report must contain
the account numbers and the account holder name for each account included in the report,
Published June 3, 2026
279
the date of the report, and
the date and deposit details of the deposits reﬂected on the report.
The lender must review the report to conﬁrm the borrower is listed as an account holder. The lender must not
have any information indicating the borrower may no longer be employed and must investigate and resolve any
contradictory or conﬂicting information.
When a manual review is performed, the lender must obtain the report within the same timeframe required for
a verbal veriﬁcation of employment and additionally, review the report to conﬁrm
the deposit details of the direct deposits that are being used to reverify employment
match the ACH details identiﬁed in the DU ﬁndings messages for the direct deposit streams used
by DU to validate employment, and
are consistent with the income source provided in DU;
the pattern of receipt of the identiﬁed direct deposits used to reverify employment does not reﬂect
missed payments, and the latest expected payment prior to the date of the report is present.
Note: When a lender performs a manual review of the supplemental asset report to reverify
employment, the enforcement relief from representations and warranties related to the employment
validation through the DU validation service described in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement
Relief of Representations and Warranties ,A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of
Representations and Warranties does not apply.
All supplemental asset reports must be retained in the loan ﬁle.
Asset Validation
The following table lists the asset types that can be validated and the documentation that DU will require, which
may be diﬀerent than the standard documentation required in this Guide.
Eligible Asset Types Eligible Veriﬁcation Report
Assets held in the following accounts:
Checking
Savings
Certiﬁcates of Deposit
Stocks
Money Market
Mutual funds
Retirement
Asset Veriﬁcation Report
Note: Additional documentation may be required
depending on the type of asset account and the
assessment conducted by DU for validation purposes.
Asset—Additional Information
The following additional information applies to asset validation:
All assets shown on the asset veriﬁcation report must be in U.S. dollars and held in a U.S. or state
regulated ﬁnancial institution.
Published June 3, 2026
280
The account statements obtained from the vendor must cover the most recent:
30 days of account activity for reﬁnance transactions
60 days of account activity for purchase transactions
The most recent quarter, if account information is reported on a quarterly basis
The lender must review the veriﬁcation report (covering the account activity for the period of time
required) and investigate and resolve any conﬂicting or contradictory information. The lender must also
conﬁrm that the borrower is listed as an account holder for each asset account.
The DU validation service automates the assessment of large deposits on purchase transactions required
in B3-4.2-02, Depository Accounts. When a large deposit needs to be documented, DU will issue a
message specifying the amount of the large deposit, as well as the institution name and account number
of the account that includes the large deposit. If no message is issued by DU, then no documentation of
any large deposit appearing on the asset report is required when assets have been validated.
When the DU validation service validates assets on transactions with gift funds, the lender must ensure
that the gift funds that appear as deposits on the asset veriﬁcation report (if any) meet the requirements
in B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts.
If the actual amount of funds required to complete the transaction is greater than the Funds Required to
Close speciﬁed in DU, the lender must document liquid assets to cover the additional amount. See
B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the Credit Report for additional details on
whether the loan must be resubmitted to DU.
For self-employed borrowers, if an eligible asset account is reﬂected as a business account on the
veriﬁcation report, the lender must perform a business cash ﬂow analysis to conﬁrm that the withdrawal
of funds for this transaction will not have a negative impact on the business. If the lender determines the
withdrawal would have a negative impact on the business, the lender must remove the assets from the
online loan application, obtain an updated veriﬁcation report that excludes the business account, and
resubmit the loan to DU.
When retirement assets are entered in DU, DU issues a message requiring the lender to ensure that
withdrawals are permitted, and that withdrawals are not limited to those completed in connection with
the borrower’s employment termination, retirement, or death. If any of these conditions are present, the
lender must remove the retirement account assets from the online loan application, obtain an updated
veriﬁcation report that excludes the retirement account, and resubmit the loan to DU.
Note: If the lender would like to use the asset veriﬁcation report to supplement the credit risk
assessment in DU, see Rent Payment History in B3-2-03, Risk Factors Evaluated by DU  for additional
information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
Announcement SEL-2024-05 August 07, 2024
Published June 3, 2026
281
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-02 March 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2022-07 August 03, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-03 April 07, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-06 July 03, 2019
 
B3-2-03, Risk Factors Evaluated by DU (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the risk factors evaluated by DU, including:
Risk Factors Evaluated by DU
Credit History
Delinquent Accounts
Installment Loans
Rent Payment History
Revolving Credit Utilization
Public Records, Foreclosures, and Collection Accounts
Inquiries
Borrower’s Equity and LTV Ratio
Liquid Reserves
Loan Purpose
Loan Term
Loan Amortization Type
Occupancy Type