SECTION: B3-2-10
TITLE: Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the Credit Report
EFFECTIVE: 12/04/2019
PAGES: 313-316
---
Published June 3, 2026
295
B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the
Credit Report (12/04/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the accuracy of DU data, DU tolerances, and errors in the credit report,
including:
Ensuring DU Data and Delivery Information Accuracy
DU Tolerances for Reﬁnance Transaction Loan Amount Changes
Other Errors in the Credit Data
Non-Applicant Debts/Accounts
Ensuring DU Data and Delivery Information Accuracy
The data submitted to DU must reﬂect the loan as it was closed, including occupancy type, product type,
amortization, loan term, property type, loan purpose, sales price, and appraised value.
Veriﬁcation documents must be reviewed and the veriﬁed values compared to the data submitted to DU. The
terms of the closed loan must match the terms of the ﬁnal loan caseﬁle submission in DU or fall within the
tolerances listed in the following table:
Data Attribute and
Description
Trigger Action Required
• Interest rate increase
• Discrepancies between the
credit report payments and
balances and those listed on
the online loan application,
including the presence of debt
that is on the credit report but
not on the application
• Additional debt(s) disclosed
by the borrower or identiﬁed
by the lender during the
mortgage process
• Veriﬁed income is less than
the income on the loan
application submitted to DU
DU loans — the result of these
changes causes the DTI ratio
recalculated by the lender to
• now exceed 45%, or
• increase by 3 percentage points or
more (if the recalculated DTI ratio is
50% or less)
* See resubmission examples below.
Loan caseﬁle must be
resubmitted to DU
Published June 3, 2026
296
Data Attribute and
Description
Trigger Action Required
Interest rate on ﬁxed-rate and
adjustable-rate mortgages
Interest rate decreases, not as the
result of a permanent interest rate
buydown
No resubmission required
Interest rate on ﬁxed-rate and
adjustable-rate mortgages
Interest rate decreases as the result
of a permanent interest rate
buydown
Loan caseﬁle must be
resubmitted to DU
Veriﬁed income used to
qualify the borrower for loans
subject to income limits; for
example, as with HomeReady
loans.
Income is greater than the loan
application indicates
Loan caseﬁle must be
resubmitted to DU
Assets — Funds Required to
Close
The actual amount of assets required
to close the transaction exceeds the
amount of “Funds Required to Close”
per the DU Underwriting Findings
report
If the lender has documented
suﬃcient liquid assets to
cover the actual amount of
assets required to close the
transaction, no resubmission
required
Otherwise, loan caseﬁle must
be resubmitted to DU
Assets — Reserves Required
to be Veriﬁed
Due to changes in the actual amount
of assets required to close the
transaction, the veriﬁed amount of
reserves is less than the “Reserves
Required to be Veriﬁed” per the DU
Underwriting Findings report
If the lender has documented
reserves that equal at least
90% of the Reserves Required
to be Veriﬁed per the DU
Underwriting Findings report,
no resubmission required
Otherwise, loan caseﬁle must
be resubmitted to DU
Loan amount tolerances for
reﬁnance transactions (See below)
*Resubmission examples based on DTI triggers
Published June 3, 2026
297
Original DTI Recalculated DTI Resubmission Required
35 40 Yes
44 46 Yes
46 48 No
46 50 Yes
DU Tolerances for Reﬁnance Transaction Loan Amount Changes
For reﬁnance transactions, Fannie Mae allows the following tolerances to the loan amount:
The loan amount may increase $500 or up to 1% of the loan amount, whichever is less.
The loan amount may decrease 5% of the loan amount.
The loan amount tolerances are permitted provided the new LTV/CLTV does not result in
changes to the amount of required mortgage insurance coverage,
diﬀerent loan-level price adjustments, or
changes to loan eligibility.
For example, if a loan caseﬁle is submitted with a loan amount of $100,000 and the appraised value is $120,000
(which equals 83.3% LTV), the actual loan amount can go up to $100,500 (which equals 83.75% LTV) without
requiring resubmission.
On the other hand, if the original loan amount was $108,000 (90% LTV), an increase without resubmission is not
permitted because it would result in an LTV of 91%. The higher LTV requires diﬀerent mortgage insurance
coverage, and may result in the loan not being eligible for delivery.
The loan amount tolerance does not apply to Fannie Mae’s requirements regarding the amount of cash back to
the borrower on a limited cash-out reﬁnance transaction. (See B2-1.3-02, Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance
Transactions.)
Other Errors in the Credit Data
In some cases, errors are the result of reporting errors by the credit agency or individual creditors.
If the printed credit report contains derogatory information, and DU does not recognize or consider the
derogatory information and does not reﬂect the derogatory information in the DU Underwriting Findings report,
the lender must take action when information not considered by DU would result in a recommendation other
than that returned by DU.
Published June 3, 2026
298
For example, if a borrower’s credit report indicates that the borrower had a previous foreclosure, but the DU
Underwriting Findings report does not reference the foreclosure, a reporting or data transfer error may have
occurred, thus preventing DU from considering the foreclosure in its analysis of the loan. The lender must take
action to ensure that the information is considered in the risk analysis.
Non-Applicant Debts/Accounts
In a small number of caseﬁles, credit reports may include accounts identiﬁed as possible non-applicant accounts
(or with another similar notation). DU will include these tradelines in the credit risk assessment, and will also
include the accounts in the DTI ratio when provided on the loan application. See B3-6-05, Monthly Debt
Obligations for the requirements.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B3-2-11, DU Underwriting Findings Report (09/07/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the DU Underwriting Findings report, including:
Overview
Potential Red Flag Messages
Overview
The DU Underwriting Findings report summarizes the overall underwriting recommendation and eligibility
component of the loan caseﬁle and lists certain steps necessary for the lender to complete the processing of the
loan ﬁle.
Speciﬁc messages are provided for each individual loan caseﬁle. These detailed messages are designed to
assist lenders in processing and closing loans. However, the level of documentation recommended by DU may