SECTION: B3-2-07
TITLE: Refer with Caution Recommendations
EFFECTIVE: 02/01/2023
PAGES: 309-311
---
Published June 3, 2026
291
place the loan outside of Fannie Mae's current acquisition preferences and constraints, the
borrower may provide documentation of additional income to lower the debt-to-income ratio
or provide a larger down payment to lower the LTV ratio.
Update the loan application data (if applicable) and resubmit the loan caseﬁle to DU for an updated
recommendation.
If the loan caseﬁle still receives and Approve/Ineligible recommendation, the lender may manually underwrite
the loan in accordance with the requirements in the table above.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
 
B3-2-07, Refer with Caution Recommendations (02/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Refer with Caution recommendations, including:
Overview of Refer with Caution Recommendations
Lender Response to a Refer with Caution Recommendation
Overview of Refer with Caution Recommendations
The layering and degree of risk factors that result in a Refer with Caution recommendation represent a greater
risk of serious delinquency than for those loan caseﬁles that receive an Approve recommendation.
Any loan caseﬁle that receives a Refer with Caution recommendation from DU does not represent a level of risk
that is acceptable to Fannie Mae for DU loans. If the data DU considered was an accurate representation of the
borrower’s income, assets, liabilities, and credit proﬁle, the loan is not eligible for sale to Fannie Mae as a DU
loan.
Published June 3, 2026
292
The following table provides further information about this DU recommendation.
Refer with Caution
Eligible for Fannie Mae’s limited waiver of certain
mortgage eligibility and underwriting representations
and warranties?
No
Satisﬁes Fannie Mae’s credit risk standards/assessment? No, the loan does not meet Fannie Mae's
credit risk standards for DU loans.
Satisﬁes Fannie Mae’s mortgage eligibility criteria? No, the loan does not meet Fannie Mae's
stated eligibility requirements for DU loans.
Eligible for sale to Fannie Mae?
Not as a DU loan.
The lender may manually underwrite the loan
in accordance with this Selling Guide if the
loan product or transaction otherwise allows
for sale of manually underwritten loans. See 
B3-1-01, Comprehensive Risk Assessment and
the Eligibility Matrix for appropriate eligibility
requirements and considerations.
Lender Response to a Refer with Caution Recommendation
When a loan caseﬁle receives a Refer with Caution recommendation, the lender should:
Review the DU loan data for accuracy and verify that all income, assets, and liabilities were accurately
recorded and fully disclosed by the borrower. 
Determine if there is any information outside of the data submitted to DU that could have aﬀected DU's
recommendation.
Update the loan application data (if applicable) and resubmit the loan caseﬁle to DU for an updated
recommendation.
Review the credit report data to determine if the information accurately represents the applicant’s credit
history. Erroneous data in the credit report, or contradicting or derogatory information, could have
aﬀected DU’s recommendation. (See  B3-2-01, General Information on DU, for additional guidance.)
Investigate whether there were any extenuating circumstances that contributed to serious instances of
derogatory credit.
If the loan caseﬁle still receives a Refer with Caution recommendation, the lender may manually underwrite the
loan in accordance with the requirements in the table above. 
Published June 3, 2026
293
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements and Release Notes Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
 
B3-2-08, Out of Scope Recommendations (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Out of Scope recommendations.
Out of Scope Recommendation
Out of Scope Recommendation
An Out of Scope recommendation indicates that DU is unable to underwrite the particular product, mortgage, or
borrower described in the submission.
Any mortgage that receives an Out of Scope recommendation must be manually underwritten.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-2-09, Erroneous Credit Report Data (01/27/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on erroneous credit report data, including:
Erroneous Credit Report Data
Merged Credit Reports and the Impact on DU’s Evaluation
Lender Action Regarding Derogatory Credit Reported in Error