SECTION: B3-2-01
TITLE: General Information on DU
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2026
PAGES: 287-291
---
Published June 3, 2026
269
This chapter describes DU considerations and requirements.
B3-2-01, General Information on DU (04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on DU, including:
Overview
Underwriting with DU
DU Underwriting Reports
Loan Caseﬁle Archival Policy
DU Underwriting Recommendations
General Requirements for Lenders
Overview
Fannie Mae’s underwriting policies include an evaluation of the borrower’s (or spouse’s to the extent required
by applicable law) equity investment, credit history, liquid reserves, reliable and recurring income, and the
cumulative eﬀect that these and other risk factors have on mortgage loan performance. Fannie Mae’s
underwriting policies enable the lender to consider various scenarios in evaluating a borrower’s willingness and
capacity to repay the mortgage loan. The lender must conﬁrm that information provided by the borrower during
the loan application process is accurate and complete; include documentation in the loan ﬁle that supports the
lender’s assessment of the borrower’s credit history, employment and income, assets, and other ﬁnancial
information used for qualifying; conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of each mortgage loan application;
and render a decision to either approve or decline the mortgage loan application.
Fannie Mae oﬀers lenders two options for conducting a comprehensive risk assessment–automated underwriting
through DU or manual underwriting. Both methods include an evaluation of the borrower’s equity investment,
credit history, liquid reserves, reliable and recurring income, and the cumulative eﬀect that these and other risk
factors have on mortgage loan performance.
DU evaluates mortgage delinquency risk and arrives at an underwriting recommendation by relying on a
comprehensive examination of the primary and contributory risk factors in a mortgage application. (See
B3-2-03, Risk Factors Evaluated by DU) It analyzes the information in the loan caseﬁle to reach an overall credit
risk assessment to determine eligibility for delivery to Fannie Mae.
No one factor determines a borrower’s ability or willingness to make their mortgage payments. DU identiﬁes
low-risk factors that can oﬀset high-risk factors. When several high-risk factors are present in a loan caseﬁle
without suﬃcient oﬀsets, the likelihood of serious delinquency increases.
DU conducts its analysis uniformly, and without regard to race, gender, or other prohibited factors. DU uses
validated, statistically signiﬁcant variables that have been shown to be predictive of mortgage delinquency
across all groups.
Published June 3, 2026
270
DU does not evaluate a loan’s compliance with federal and state laws and regulations including, without
limitation, a loan’s potential status as a qualiﬁed mortgage under applicable laws and regulations. Lenders bear
sole responsibility for complying with applicable laws and regulations, and these compliance obligations may not
be imposed upon or shared by Fannie Mae.
Underwriting with DU
Lenders must enter loan data (including data from the Form 1003) in their loan origination system or in the DU
user interface before submitting for underwriting. A credit report must also be obtained. Loans may be
submitted to DU before or after the closing of the mortgage loan; however, the ﬁrst submission to DU for
underwriting purposes must occur before closing of the mortgage loan.
When the mortgage loan or borrower information changes and it no longer matches the information used when
the loan caseﬁle was last underwritten with DU, the lender must update the data and resubmit the loan caseﬁle
to DU. Exceptions are speciﬁed in B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the Credit Report.
When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU after closing and prior to delivery to Fannie Mae, the lender is
responsible for ensuring that:
all information provided in the ﬁnal submission to DU matches the terms of the closed loan;
the loan complies with the requirements speciﬁed in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of
Representations and Warranties;
the loan delivery data matches both the closed loan and the ﬁnal data submitted to DU; and
the loan caseﬁle receives an eligible recommendation from DU on the ﬁnal submission.
The lender may request a new credit report after closing when the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted and, as with all
loan caseﬁles, must comply with the Fair Credit Reporting Act with regard to the purpose and nature of the
inquiry. If the new credit report contains information that is diﬀerent than the information used to prepare the
ﬁnal loan application that was signed by the borrower at closing, the loan application must be updated.
(Borrower signature(s) are not required due to the update occurring post-closing.) The lender must include both
the ﬁnal signed and the updated unsigned loan applications in the loan ﬁle.
Note: The credit report must meet the allowable age of documents as of the note date. If the credit
report expired prior to the note date and the loan caseﬁle is being resubmitted to DU, a new credit
report must be requested.
In certain instances, the lender may not be able to access the original DU loan caseﬁle for resubmission
purposes. Lenders may create a new loan caseﬁle in DU after closing to ensure that all information in the ﬁnal
DU submission matches the terms of the closed loan, provided all of the following conditions are met:
the above lender responsibilities are met, including the updating of the ﬁnal loan application, if
applicable;
the loan has not yet been delivered to Fannie Mae;
the loan has the same information (for example, the same borrower(s) and property) as had previously
been underwritten through DU prior to closing using another loan caseﬁle, and that loan caseﬁle received
an eligible recommendation from DU;
the lender retains the DU Underwriting Findings Report from the original loan caseﬁle ID in the loan ﬁle;
the DU submission using the new loan caseﬁle occurs no more than 60 days after closing (based on the
note date) or 18 months after initial closing for single-closing construction-to-permanent loans (described
Published June 3, 2026
271
in B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing: Single-Closing Transactions); and
as stated above, when a new credit report is requested, the lender complies with the Fair Credit
Reporting Act.
If the resubmission to DU results in an “ineligible” recommendation, the mortgage loan may not be delivered to
Fannie Mae.
Note: If the quality control function is performed before delivery, the above requirements apply. If
quality control is performed after delivery, see Chapter D1-3, Lender Post-Closing QC Mortgage
Review.
DU Underwriting Reports
DU issues two types of reports:
The DU Underwriting Findings report summarizes the overall underwriting recommendation and lists the
steps necessary for the lender to complete the processing of the loan ﬁle. This is typically the ﬁrst report
viewed by an underwriter or a loan oﬃcer after the loan caseﬁle has been underwritten with DU. This
report is described in B3-2-11, DU Underwriting Findings Report.
The Underwriting Analysis report contains much of the same information requested on the Uniform
Underwriting and Transmittal Summary ( Form 1008).
Each time a loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU, the information in these reports is updated with information from
the most recent submission. The date and time of each submission are recorded on each report, along with the
unique loan caseﬁle ID.
Loan Caseﬁle Archival Policy
DU loan caseﬁles are archived and no longer retained in DU from the earlier of
270 days from the date on which the loan caseﬁle was last updated, or
540 days from the date on which the loan caseﬁle was created.
Loan caseﬁles for single-closing construction-to-permanent transactions (identiﬁed in DU as a Construction-to-
Permanent Closing Type of Single-Closing), will be archived using 660 days from the date on which the loan
caseﬁle was created.
These time frames are intended to ensure that the total volume of loans in the system is at a manageable level,
reducing the time required by DU to search for and retrieve loan caseﬁles
After a loan caseﬁle is archived from DU, it cannot be restored. If a loan caseﬁle that has been archived must be
re-underwritten, a new loan caseﬁle must be created and submitted to DU. The loan caseﬁle will be subject to
the policies in eﬀect for the current version of DU. Fannie Mae is not responsible for retaining loan caseﬁles for
the lender.
DU Underwriting Recommendations
Published June 3, 2026
272
The following topics describe the underwriting recommendations returned by DU:
B3-2-05, Approve/Eligible Recommendations.
B3-2-06, Approve/Ineligible Recommendations.
B3-2-07, Refer with Caution Recommendations.
B3-2-08, Out of Scope Recommendations.
General Requirements for Lenders
When underwriting loans with DU, the lender must:
employ prudent underwriting judgment in assessing whether a loan caseﬁle should be approved and
delivered to Fannie Mae;
conﬁrm the accuracy of the data it submits, making sure that it did not fail to submit any data that might
have aﬀected the DU recommendation had it been known;
ensure that the loan complies with all of the veriﬁcation messages and approval conditions speciﬁed in
the DU Underwriting Findings report;
apply due diligence when reviewing the documentation in the loan ﬁle;
review the credit report to conﬁrm that the data that DU evaluated with respect to the borrower’s credit
history was accurate and complete;
determine if there is any potentially derogatory or contradictory information that is not part of the data
analyzed by DU; and
take action when erroneous data in the credit report or contradictory or derogatory information in the
loan ﬁle would justify additional investigation or would provide grounds for a decision that is diﬀerent
from the recommendation that DU delivered.
For example, if a foreclosure was reported in the credit report but was not detected by DU (that is, it was not
referenced in any veriﬁcation messages), the lender must determine if the loan complies with the applicable
guidelines (see B3-5.3-07, Signiﬁcant Derogatory Credit Events — Waiting Periods and Re-establishing Credit).
See the Desktop Underwriter & Desktop Originator Learning Center for a number of helpful resources.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements and Release Notes Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-03 April 01, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2021-04 May 05, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Published June 3, 2026
273
 
B3-2-02, DU Validation Service (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the DU validation service, including:
General Information
Authorized Vendors and Veriﬁcation Reports
Asset Veriﬁcation Reports
Lender Requirements
Validation Results
Income Validation
Employment Validation
Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment Alternative for Employment Validated using an Asset Veriﬁcation
Report
Asset Validation
General Information
The DU validation service oﬀers lenders an opportunity to deliver loans with more certainty. Certain components
of the loan ﬁle – income, employment, and assets – are eligible for validation by DU using electronic veriﬁcation
reports obtained from vendors. When a component of the loan is validated by DU, the loan may be eligible for
representation and warranty enforcement relief related to that component. Diﬀerent lender quality control and
documentation requirements may also apply. See the following for additional information:
A2-2-01, Representations and Warranties Overview,
A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties,
B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns,
B3-3.1-01, General Income Information,
B3-3.2-01, Standards for Employment and Income Documentation,
B3-3.1-02, Tax Return and Transcript Documentation Requirements,
B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment,
  Section B3-3.4, Other Sources of Income,
B3-4.2-01, Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets,
B3-4.2-02, Depository Accounts,
B3-4.4-02, Requirements for Certain Assets in DU,
D1-2-01, Lender Prefunding Quality Control Review Process, and
D1-3-02, Lender Post-Closing Quality Control Review of Approval Conditions, Underwriting Decisions,
Data, and Documentation.
The DU validation service is an optional service available only for conventional loans underwritten through DU.
Lenders are not required to participate in the DU validation service in order for a loan to be underwritten
through DU and may not require a borrower to participate in the DU validation service.