SECTION: B3-2-05
TITLE: Approve/Eligible Recommendations
EFFECTIVE: 01/27/2015
PAGES: 306-307
---
Published June 3, 2026
288
DU Documentation Requirements
DU indicates the minimum veriﬁcation documentation requirements necessary for the lender to process the loan
application. While DU may oﬀer a reduced level of documentation, a more comprehensive level of
documentation is always acceptable and in some instances should be required by lenders when circumstances
in the loan ﬁle warrant it.
DU documentation requirements are based on the speciﬁc risk factors present in each loan ﬁle. The
requirements appear in the DU Underwriting Findings report in the section titled Veriﬁcation Messages/Approval
Conditions. DU indicates the minimum documentation requirements for income and asset veriﬁcation, credit-
related documentation, and level of property ﬁeldwork.
Transferring Documentation Flexibilities to Another Lender
The documentation ﬂexibilities that apply to loan caseﬁles underwritten with DU are transferable to any lender
that subsequently delivers the mortgage to, or services it for, Fannie Mae.
The terms of the closed mortgage and the information in the underwriting ﬁle must match the data on which DU
based its recommendation. For additional information, see:
B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the Credit Report, and
B4-1.1-02, Lender Responsibilities.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-2-05, Approve/Eligible Recommendations (01/27/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Approve/Eligible recommendations.
Approve/Eligible Recommendations
Approve/Eligible Recommendations
The following table describes these recommendations.
Published June 3, 2026
289
Approve/Eligible
Eligible for Fannie Mae’s limited waiver of certain
mortgage loan eligibility and underwriting
representations and warranties?
Yes, as long as the mortgage loan satisﬁes the
applicable requirements related to limited waivers
as described in this Guide. (See A2-2-04, Limited
Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations
and Warranties.)
Satisﬁes Fannie Mae’s credit risk
standards/assessment? Yes
Satisﬁes Fannie Mae’s mortgage loan eligibility
criteria? Yes
Eligible for sale to Fannie Mae? Yes, if all approval conditions have been met.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
 
B3-2-06, Approve/Ineligible Recommendations (02/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Approve/Ineligible recommendations.
Overview of Approve/Ineligible Recommendations
Lender Response to an Approve/Ineligible Recommendation
Overview of Approve/Ineligible Recommendations
Loan caseﬁles may receive an Ineligible recommendation for a variety of reasons, including:
The loan does not comply with stated product requirements or policies that apply to DU loans in this
Guide; or
The loan complies with stated product requirements or policies, but has a combination of product
features or risk factors that place the loan outside of Fannie Mae's current acquisition preferences and
constraints for DU loans.