SECTION: B3-3.4-04
TITLE: Boarder Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 355-357
---
Published June 3, 2026
337
Criteria Requirements
Income Continuance
Insurance/personal annuity or retirement account distribution: The
lender must document that income is expected to continue for at least three
years from the note date.
Distributions or ﬁxed payment from a pension: Document(s) used to
support the monthly income amount may not reference the required minimum
three-year continuance from the note date.  In these situations, the lender
must make the determination using alternative documentation such as, but not
limited to, an applicable written agreement, the respective government
program associated with the distribution, or information required by law or
regulation related to the distribution.
Note: Eligible retirement account balances (from 401(k), IRA, or Keogh) may
be combined for the purpose of determining whether the three-year
continuance requirement is met. The borrower must have unrestricted access
to the accounts without penalty. 
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Fixed Distribution or ﬁxed payment: The monthly payment amount as
documented above may be used as qualifying income.
Variable Distribution: Develop an average of the income received for the
most recent 12 months. 
DU Validation
Service
If a borrower's annuity, pension, or retirement income is validated by the DU
validation service, DU will issue a message indicating the required
documentation. This documentation may diﬀer from the requirements
described above. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service .
 
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic. 
Announcement Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Published June 3, 2026
338
B3-3.4-04, Boarder Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for boarder income. 
Criteria Requirements
Eligibility
Income from boarders residing in the borrower’s principal residence or second
home is not considered acceptable stable income with the exception of the
following:
• When a borrower with disabilities receives rental income from a live-in
personal assistant, whether or not that individual is a relative of the borrower,
the rental payments can be considered as acceptable stable income in an
amount up to 30% of the total gross income that is used to qualify the borrower
for the mortgage loan. Personal assistants typically are paid by Medicaid
Waiver funds and include room and board, from which rental payments are
made to the borrower.
• The HomeReady mortgage eligibility requirements include an additional
exception. See Chapter B5-6, HomeReady Mortgage.
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
• the boarder's history of shared residency (such as a copy of a driver's license,
bills, bank statements, or W-2 forms) that shows the boarder's address as being
the same as the borrower's address, and
• receipt of income for the most recent 12 months using sources including, but
not limited to:
    ⚬ bank statements
    ⚬ cancelled checks, or
    ⚬ evidence of other electronic receipt of payments.
Income History
• A minimum of 12-month history is required.
• The payment history must demonstrate the stability of the income, as
reﬂected in the receipt of full, regular, and timely payments.
Income Continuance Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Published June 3, 2026
339
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The monthly income amount as documented above may be used as qualifying
income.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-05, Capital Gains Income (03/04/2026)
Income received from capital gains is generally a one-time transaction; therefore, it should not be considered as
part of the borrower’s stable monthly income. However, if the borrower is using income from capital gains to
qualify, the income must be veriﬁed in accordance with the following requirements.
The following table provides requirements for capital gains income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
•    copies of the borrower’s signed personal federal income tax returns for the most recent two
years, including IRS Form 1040, Schedule D, and 
•    evidence that the borrower owns a portfolio of assets that can be sold if additional income is
needed to make future mortgage loan payments
Note: Due to the nature of this income, the current receipt of the income is not required to comply
with the Allowable Age of Credit Documents policy. However, documentation of the asset ownership
must be in compliance with the Allowable Age of Credit Documents policy (see B1-1-03, Allowable
Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns, for additional information). 
Income History A minimum two-year history is required.  
Income
Continuance
The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to believe the income may not
continue.