SECTION: B3-3.3-09
TITLE: Temporary Leave Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 347-351
---
Published June 3, 2026
329
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a completed Request for Veriﬁcation of Employment ( Form 1005); or
• the most recent paystub and two years' W-2s.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation
of Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Note: For seasonal unemployment compensation, the lender must verify
that it is clearly associated with seasonal layoﬀs, expected to recur, and
reported on the borrower's personal income tax returns. See B3-3.4-17,
Unemployment Beneﬁts Income, for more information on unemployment
beneﬁts.
Income History A minimum two-year history is required.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason
to believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender must calculate an average income amount using year-to-date
income, when present, and previous two years' earnings.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-09, Temporary Leave Income (03/04/2026)
Temporary leave from work is generally employee-initiated, short in duration and for reasons, including, but not
limited to maternity or parental leave, short-term medical disability, or other temporary leave types acceptable
by law or to the borrower's employer. Borrowers on temporary leave may or may not be paid during their
absence from work.
Note: Mandatory leave initiated by an employer, such as a furlough or layoﬀ, is not considered
Published June 3, 2026
330
temporary leave regardless of an expected return to work date. For income from unemployment
beneﬁts received as a result of mandatory leave initiated by an employer, see B3-3.4-17,
Unemployment Beneﬁts Income.
If a lender is made aware that a borrower will be on temporary leave at the time of the loan closing and that
borrower's income is needed to qualify for the loan, the lender must determine allowable income and conﬁrm
employment as described below.
The following table provides requirements for temporary leave income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• documentation to support the borrower's qualifying income in accordance
with the speciﬁc income type in Section B3-3.3, Sources of Employment-Related
Income, and must include:
    ⚬ the amount and duration of the borrower's "temporary leave income,"
which may require multiple documents or sources depending on the type and
duration of the leave period; and
    ⚬ the amount of the "regular employment income" the borrower received
prior to the temporary leave. Regular employment includes, but is not limited
to, the income the borrower receives from employment on a regular basis that
is eligible for qualifying purposes (for example, base pay, commissions, and
bonus).
• written conﬁrmation from the borrower of their intent to return to work;
• documentation produced by the employer (or a designee of the employer
when the employer is using the services of a third-party to administer employee
leave) that conﬁrms the borrower's expected return to work date. The
documentation may be provided to the lender by the borrower, the employer,
or the employer's designee. Acceptable documentation may include, but is not
limited to:
    ⚬ previous correspondence from the employer or designee that speciﬁes the
duration of leave or expected return date, or
    ⚬ a computer printout from an employer or designee's system of record.
(This documentation does not have to comply with the Allowable Age of Credit
Documents policy in B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit Documents and Federal
Income Tax Returns.)
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment, for speciﬁc requirements. If the employer conﬁrms the borrower is
currently on temporary leave, the lender must consider the borrower employed.
Published June 3, 2026
331
Criteria Requirements
Income History
The borrower's employment and income history must meet standard eligibility
requirements as described in Section B3-3, Sources of Employment-Related
Income.
Income Continuance
Income continuance must be established by income type as described in
Section B3-3.3, Sources of Employment Related Income. 
The lender must not receive any evidence or information from the borrower's
employer to indicate the borrower does not have the right to return to work
after the leave period.
Published June 3, 2026
332
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
If the borrower will return to work as of the ﬁrst loan payment date, the lender
can consider the borrower's regular employment income in qualifying.
If the borrower will not return to work as of the ﬁrst loan payment date, the
lender must use the lesser of the borrower's temporary leave income (if any) or
regular employment income. If the borrower's temporary leave income is less
than their regular employment income, the lender may supplement the
temporary leave income with available liquid ﬁnancial reserves (see B3-4.1-01,
Minimum Reserve Requirements). The following are instructions on how to
calculate the "supplemental income":
Supplemental income amount = available liquid reserves divided by
the number of months of supplemental income
• Available liquid reserves: subtract any funds needed to complete the
transaction (down payment, closing costs, other required debt payoﬀ, escrows,
and minimum required reserves) from the total veriﬁed liquid asset amount.
• Number of months of supplemental income: the number of months from the
ﬁrst loan payment date to the date the borrower will begin receiving their
regular employment income, rounded up to the next whole number.
After determining the supplemental income amount, the lender must calculate
the total qualifying income.
Total qualifying income = supplemental income + the temporary leave
income
The resulting, total qualifying income may not exceed the borrower's regular
employment income.
Example
Regular income amount: $6,000 per month
Temporary leave income: $2,000 per month
Total veriﬁed liquid assets: $30,000
Funds needed to complete the transaction: $18,000
Available liquid reserves: $12,000
First payment date: July 1
Date borrower will begin receiving regular employment income: November 1
Supplemental income: $12,000/4 = $3,000
Total qualifying income: $3,000+$2,000 = $5,000
For loan caseﬁles underwritten with DU, refer to the DU Job Aids, for data entry
guidance.
Note: These requirements apply if the lender becomes aware through the
employment and income veriﬁcation process that the borrower is on temporary
leave. If a borrower is not currently on temporary leave, the lender must not
ask if they intend to take leave in the future.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
333
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Section B3-3.4, Other Sources of Income
B3-3.4-01, General Requirements for Other Sources of Income
(03/04/2026)
Documentation Requirements for Current Receipt of Income
Reporting Other Income in DU
Documentation Requirements for Current Receipt of Income
The documentation requirements for each income source type is outlined in the applicable income topic. The
documentation must support the history of receipt, if applicable, and the amount, frequency, and duration of the
income. In addition, evidence of current receipt of the income must be obtained in compliance with the
Allowable Age of Credit Documents policy, unless speciﬁcally excluded below. See  B1-1-03, Allowable Age of
Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns , for additional information.
Reporting Other Income in DU
Income source types not available for selection in DU must be entered as “Other” Income on the loan
application. Please refer to the DU Job Aids for more information regarding data entry to Desktop Underwriter.
See B3-3.2-02, Standards for Employment-Related Income, B3-3.3-08, Seasonal Income, and B5-6-02,
HomeReady Mortgage Underwriting Methods and Requirements, for information on eligibility and veriﬁcation of
multiple jobs, secondary employment, seasonal employment, and other sources of income.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.