SECTION: B3-3.2-02
TITLE: Standards for Employment-Related Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 330-332
---
Published June 3, 2026
312
the borrower provided proper authorization for the lender to use this veriﬁcation method,
the date of the completed veriﬁcation is in compliance with B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit Documents
and Federal Income Tax Returns,
the lender has determined that the vendor has made provisions to comply with reasonable quality control
requests from both the lender and any subsequent mortgagee, and
the lender understands it will be held accountable for the integrity of the information obtained from this
source.
If necessary, the lender must supplement these veriﬁcations by obtaining any missing information from the
borrower or their employer.
Loans that are submitted through the DU validation service must comply with all requirements pertaining to the
DU validation service. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02  March 04, 2026 
B3-3.2-02, Standards for Employment-Related Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for using employment-related income for qualifying.
Criteria Requirements
Employment 
Lenders must evaluate the borrower’s work history to determine whether it
reﬂects a reliable pattern of employment over the most recent two years. A
shorter employment history may be considered eligible for qualifying purposes if
the borrower’s employment proﬁle includes positive factors that reasonably oﬀset
the shorter employment history.
Published June 3, 2026
313
Criteria Requirements
Multiple Jobs
Borrowers who are qualifying with income from multiple employment sources at
the same time, including self-employment, must meet the requirements for each
speciﬁc income type, as well as the following requirements:
• A two-year history for each income source is recommended; however, income
that has been received for a shorter period of time (but, no less than 12 months)
may be considered as acceptable income, as long as there are positive factors to
reasonably oﬀset the shorter income history.
• When the borrower’s employment history includes diﬀerent employers, in no
instance may the borrower have any gap in employment greater than one month
in the most recent 12-month period, unless the employment is considered
seasonal income (subject to the requirements in B3-3.3-08, Seasonal Income).
Note: When one of the income sources is from self-employment (borrowers with
a 25% or greater ownership interest in the business), self-employed
documentation and eligibility requirements apply. See B3-3.5-01, Underwriting
Factors and Documentation for a Self-Employed Borrower for requirements.
Employment Gaps
Borrowers with employment gaps during the most recent 12 months may appear
to have unstable employment. Lenders must carefully analyze the borrower’s
current employment to ensure that it is likely to continue.
Job Changes
Borrowers who change jobs frequently, but who are nevertheless able to earn
consistent and predictable income, are considered to have a reliable ﬂow of
income for qualifying purposes.
Pay Raises
Future increases in pay from the borrower's current employer may be included as
qualifying income when the following requirements are met:
• The income is ﬁxed base only.
• The transaction is a purchase money or limited cash-out reﬁnance transaction.
• The increase must take eﬀect no later than 60 days after the note date.
• The increase is fully veriﬁed with the employer using Form 1005, Request for
Veriﬁcation of Employment or other documentation directly from the employer
that provides the terms of the future pay increase.
• Borrower must not be employed by a family member or interested party.
Note: Borrowers who are qualifying using income from a future employer must
meet the requirements in B3-3.3-03, Employment Oﬀers or Contracts.
Published June 3, 2026
314
Criteria Requirements
Employment by
Family or
Interested Party
Borrowers who are employed by a family member or interested party must meet
the requirements for the speciﬁc income type(s) outlined in the respective
sections throughout Chapter B3–3, Income Assessment, and the following:
• Borrower must have been employed by the business for at least the 12 months
prior to the application date.
• The lender must obtain copies of the most recent year’s signed federal income
tax returns that reﬂect borrower has less than 25% ownership in the business
owned by the family member or interested party. If the borrower has 25% or more
ownership, the borrower must be qualiﬁed as self-employed.
• The borrower’s qualifying income must be consistent with the most recent
year’s earnings, which must be documented with a W-2 or tax returns.
If a borrower’s income is validated by the DU validation service, lenders are not
required to determine if the borrower is employed by a family member or
interested party to the property sale or purchase.
Foreign Income
Foreign income is earned by a borrower who is employed by a foreign corporation
or a foreign government and is paid in foreign currency. Borrowers using foreign
income to qualify must meet the following requirements:
• Copies of signed federal income tax returns for the most recent two years that
include foreign employment-related income.
• The lender must satisfy requirements based on the source and type of income
as outlined in Chapter B3–3, Income Assessment.
• All documents of a foreign origin must be completed in English, or the lender
must provide a translation, attached to each document, and ensure the
translation is complete and accurate.
• All income must be translated to U.S. dollars.
Note: If the borrower is not a U.S. citizens, refer to B2-2-02, Non–U.S. Citizen
Borrower Eligibility Requirements, for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic. 
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026