SECTION: B3-3.4-10
TITLE: Mortgage Credit Certificates
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 365-367
---
Published June 3, 2026
347
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a copy of the borrower's disability policy or beneﬁts statement from the
beneﬁts payer (insurance company, employer, or other qualiﬁed
disinterested party) to determine:
    ⚬ the borrower's current eligibility for the disability beneﬁts,
    ⚬ the amount and frequency of the disability payments, and
    ⚬ if there is a contractually established termination or modiﬁcation date.
Additionally, the lender must obtain evidence that the borrower will receive
at least one payment on or before the ﬁrst payment due date.
Income History No minimum history is required.
Income Continuance
Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue. (Re-evaluation of beneﬁts is not
considered a reason to support income will not continue.)
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The monthly income amount as documented above may be used as
qualifying income.
However, if a borrower is currently receiving short-term disability payments
that will decrease to a lesser amount within the next three years because
they are being converted to long-term beneﬁts, the amount of the long-term
beneﬁts must be used as income to qualify the borrower. For additional
information on short-term disability, see B3-3.3-09, Temporary Leave
Income.
DU Validation Service 
If a borrower's long-term disability income is validated by the DU validation
service, DU will issue a message indicating the required documentation. This
documentation may diﬀer from the requirements described above. See
B3-2-02, DU Validation Service.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcement related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Published June 3, 2026
348
B3-3.4-10, Mortgage Credit Certiﬁcates (03/04/2026)
States and municipalities can issue mortgage credit certiﬁcates (MCCs) in place of, or as part of, their authority
to issue mortgage revenue bonds. MCCs enable an eligible ﬁrst-time homebuyer to obtain a mortgage secured
by their principal residence and to claim a federal tax credit for a speciﬁed percentage (usually 20% to 25%) of
the mortgage interest payments.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
For purchase transactions, the lender must obtain:
• a copy of the MCC, and
• the lender's documented calculation of the adjustment to the borrower's
income.
For reﬁnance transactions, the lender must obtain:
• conﬁrmation prior to loan closing from the MCC provider that the MCC
remains in eﬀect for the new loan, and
• copies of the MCC documents, including, the reissue certiﬁcation.
Note: Because the MCC is transaction speciﬁc, it does not have to comply
with the Allowable Age of Credit Documents policy (see B1-1-03, Allowable
Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns, for additional
information).
Income History No minimum history is required.
Income Continuance Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
When calculating the borrower’s DTI ratio, treat the maximum possible
MCC income as an addition to the borrower’s income, rather than as a
reduction to the amount of the borrower’s mortgage payment. Use the
following calculation when determining the available income:
[(Mortgage Amount) x (Note Rate) x (MCC %)] ÷ 12 = Amount added to
borrower’s monthly income.
For example, if a borrower obtains a $100,000 mortgage that has a note
rate of 7.5% and they are eligible for a 20% credit under the MCC
program, the amount that should be added to their monthly income would
be $125 ($100,000 x 7.5% x 20% = $1500 ÷ 12 = $125).
Published June 3, 2026
349
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-11, Notes Receivable Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for notes receivable income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
• a copy of the note to establish the amount and length of payment,
and
• receipt of income for the most recent 12 months using sources
including but not limited to:
    ⚬ bank statements,
    ⚬ canceled checks, or
    ⚬ evidence of other electronic receipt of payments.
Income History
• A minimum 12- month history is required.
• The payment history must demonstrate the stability of the income,
as reﬂected in the receipt of full, regular, and timely payments.
• Payments on a note executed within the past 12 months, regardless
of the duration, may not be used as stable income.
Income Continuance The lender must document that income is expected to continue for at
least three years from the note date.
Determination of Qualifying
Income
The monthly income amount as documented above may be used as
qualifying income.
Recent Related Announcements