SECTION: B3-3.8-01
TITLE: Rental Income
EFFECTIVE: 10/08/2025
PAGES: 406-417
---
Published June 3, 2026
388
If the lender did not count the borrower’s year-to-date salary or draws in determining the borrower’s qualifying
income, it may add them to the net proﬁt shown on the proﬁt and loss statement as well as adding any of the
allowable adjustments it used in analyzing the tax returns for the business, such as nonrecurring income and
expenses, depreciation, and depletion.
However, only the borrower’s proportionate share of these items may be considered in determining the amount
of income from the business that the borrower can use for qualifying purposes.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Section B3-3.8, Rental Income
B3-3.8-01, Rental Income (10/08/2025)
Introduction
This topic provides information on qualifying a borrower’s rental income, including:
Associated Policies
Eligible Properties
Ineligible Properties
Rental Income from an ADU on the Subject Property
General Requirements for Documenting Rental Income (Subject and Non-Subject Property)
Documenting Rental Income from Subject Property
Documenting Rental Income from Property Other Than the Subject Property
Reconciling Partial or No Rental History on Tax Returns (Schedule E Only)
Calculating Monthly Qualifying Rental Income (or Loss)
Lease Agreements, Form 1007, or Form 1025
Treatment of the Income (or Loss)
Oﬀsetting Monthly Obligations for Rental Property Reported through a Partnership or an S Corporation
Rental Income Calculation Tools
Reporting of Gross Monthly Rent
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Associated Policies
In conjunction with the policies in this topic, lenders must also comply with, as applicable, but not limited to, the
policies in the following:
Published June 3, 2026
389
B2-2-03, Multiple Financed Properties for the Same Borrower;
B3-3.1-01, General Income Information (Continuance of Income);
B3-4.1-01, Minimum Reserve Requirements; and
B3-6-06, Qualifying Impact of Other Real Estate Owned.
See also, DU Job Aids, for additional information on using income from rental property in DU.
Eligible Properties
Rental income is an acceptable source of stable income if it can be established that the income is likely to
continue. If the rental income is derived from the subject property, the property must be one of the following:
a one-unit principal residence property with an existing accessory dwelling unit (ADU), with rental income
from the ADU only,
a two- to four-unit principal residence property in which the borrower occupies one of the units, or
a one- to four-unit investment property.
If the income is derived from a property that is not the subject property, there are no restrictions on the
property type. For example, rental income from a commercial property owned by the borrower is acceptable if
the income otherwise meets all other requirements (it can be documented in accordance with the requirements
below).
Ineligible Properties
Generally, rental income from the borrower’s principal residence (a one-unit principal residence or the unit the
borrower occupies in a two- to four-unit property) or a second home cannot be used to qualify the borrower.
However, Fannie Mae does allow certain exceptions to this policy for boarder income and rental income on
principal residence properties with accessory units. See B3-3.4-04, Boarder Income, for boarder income
requirements.
Rental Income from an ADU on the Subject Property
Rental income from an existing ADU can be used in qualifying with the following conditions:
one-unit, principal residence only,
rental income from only one ADU allowed,
purchase or limited cash-out reﬁnance transactions, and
qualifying rental income amount from the ADU is limited to 30% of the total qualifying income.
All other documentation and requirements contained within this topic apply.
General Requirements for Documenting Rental Income (Subject and Non-
Subject Property)
If a borrower has a history of renting the subject or another property, generally the rental income will be
Published June 3, 2026
390
reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule E of the borrower’s personal tax returns or on Rental Real Estate Income
and Expenses of a Partnership or an S Corporation form (IRS Form 8825) of a business tax return. If the
borrower does not have a history of renting the property or if, in certain cases, the tax returns do not accurately
reﬂect the ongoing income and expenses of the property, the lender may be justiﬁed in using a fully executed
current lease agreement. Examples of scenarios that justify the use of a lease agreement are
purchase transactions where there is an existing lease on the property that will transfer to the borrower;
reﬁnance transactions where the borrower purchased the rental property during or subsequent to the last
tax return ﬁling;
reﬁnance transactions for a property that experienced signiﬁcant rental interruptions causing income
to not be reported on the most recent tax return (for example, major renovation to a property occurred in
the prior year that aﬀected rental income); and
transactions where rental income is being used to qualify for any property placed in service in the current
calendar year, for example, when converting a principal residence to an investment property.
When the subject property will generate rental income and it is used for qualifying purposes, one of the
following Fannie Mae forms must be used to support the income-earning potential of the property:
For one-unit properties: Single-Family Comparable Rent Schedule (Form 1007) (provided in conjunction
with the applicable appraisal report), or
For two- to four-unit properties: Small Residential Income Property Appraisal Report (Form 1025).
Note: The rental payment on the lease must be reﬂected in U.S. dollars (cannot be in virtual
currency).
Documenting Rental Income from Subject Property
The lender must obtain documentation that is used to calculate the monthly rental income for qualifying
purposes. The documentation may vary depending on whether the borrower has a history of renting the
property, and whether the prior year tax return includes the income.
Does the Borrower Have a
History of Receiving Rental
Income From the Subject
Property?
Transaction Type Documentation Requirements
Yes Reﬁnance
Form 1007 or Form 1025, as applicable, and
either
• the borrower’s most recent year of signed
federal income tax returns, including Schedule
1 and Schedule E, or
• copies of the current lease agreement(s) if
the borrower can document a qualifying
exception (see Reconciling Partial or No Rental
History on Tax Returns below).
Published June 3, 2026
391
Does the Borrower Have a
History of Receiving Rental
Income From the Subject
Property?
Transaction Type Documentation Requirements
No Purchase
Form 1007 or Form 1025, as applicable, and
copies of the current lease agreement(s) if
transferred to the borrower.
If the property is not currently rented or if the
existing lease is not being transferred to the
borrower, then lease agreements are not
required and Form 1007 or Form 1025 may be
used.
If there is a lease on the property that is being
transferred to the borrower, see B2-1.5-03,
Legal Requirements B7-2-05, Title Exceptions
and Impediments, for additional information.
No Reﬁnance Form 1007 or Form 1025, as applicable, and
copies of the current lease agreement(s).
Note: All references in this table to lease agreements and Form 1007 or Form 1025 must comply with
the requirements in Lease Agreements, Form 1007, or Form 1025.
If the borrower is not using any rental income from the subject property to qualify, the gross monthly rent must
still be documented for lender reporting purposes. See Reporting of Gross Monthly Rent below for details.
Documenting Rental Income from Property Other Than the Subject Property
When the borrower owns property – other than the subject property – that is rented, the lender must document
the monthly gross (and net) rental income with 
the borrower’s most recent signed federal income tax return that includes Schedule 1 and Schedule E,
the most recent signed federal business income tax return for a partnership or S corporation, that
includes IRS Form 8825 (when only rental income is reported on the K-1), or
both of the above, when rental properties are reported on both personal and business returns.
When ordinary income is also reported on Schedule K-1, along with IRS Form 8825 rental income, all
documentation guidelines noted in B3-3.5-01, Underwriting Factors and Documentation for a Self-Employed
Borrower or B3-3.4-19, Schedule K-1 Income <25% Ownership apply.
Note: For rental income reported on Schedule E of personal returns, copies of the current lease
agreement(s) may be substituted if the borrower can document a qualifying exception. See
Reconciling Partial or No Rental History on Tax Returns (Schedule E Only) below and Calculating
Monthly Qualifying Rental Income (or Loss).
Published June 3, 2026
392
Reconciling Partial or No Rental History on Tax Returns (Schedule E Only)
When rental income is being used to qualify, the lender must consider whether the income reported on the most
recent signed personal federal income tax returns is appropriate to use in underwriting.
To determine qualifying rental income, in those scenarios where the borrower has only a partial rental history on
the personal federal tax returns, the lender must determine the period of time the rental property was in service
(that is, rented, with the borrower receiving rental income from that property).
If the borrower is able to document (per the table below) that the rental property was not in service the previous
tax year, or was in service for only a portion of the previous tax year, the lender may determine qualifying
rental income by using one of the following options:
Schedule E income and expenses, and annualizing the income (or loss) calculation, or
fully executed lease agreement(s) to determine the gross rental income to be used in the net rental
income (or loss) calculation.
If ... Then ...
the property was acquired or placed into
service during the most recent tax ﬁling
year,
• the lender must conﬁrm the purchase date using the
settlement statement or other documentation, and
• Fair Rental Days on Schedule E of the most recently ﬁled
tax return must conﬁrm partial year rental income.
the property was acquired or placed into
service subsequent to the most recent tax
ﬁling year,
the lender must conﬁrm the purchase date using the
settlement statement or other documentation, if applicable.
In addition, for properties recently converted to an
investment property or newly placed in service, obtain
Schedule E of the most recently ﬁled tax return to conﬁrm
no rental income or expenses for this property.
the property was acquired prior to the
most recent tax ﬁling year, but the rental
property was out of service for an
extended period,
• repair expenses on Schedule E of the most recently ﬁled
tax return must reﬂect the costs for renovation or
rehabilitation. Additional documentation may be required to
ensure that the expenses support a signiﬁcant renovation
that supports the amount of time that the rental property
was out of service.
• Fair Rental Days on Schedule E of the most recently
ﬁled tax return must conﬁrm the number of days that the
rental unit was in service, which must support the unit being
out of service for all or a portion of the year.
Published June 3, 2026
393
If ... Then ...
the lender determines that some other
situation warrants an exception to use a
lease agreement,
the lender must provide an explanation and justiﬁcation in
the loan ﬁle.
If the borrower is converting a principal residence to an investment property, see B3-6-06, Qualifying Impact of
Other Real Estate Owned, for guidance in using that rental income to qualify the borrower.
Calculating Monthly Qualifying Rental Income (or Loss)
Rental income must be calculated for each rental property. The amount of rental income that may be used to
qualify may be restricted depending on whether the borrower currently has a housing payment and has a
history of receiving rental income.
A housing payment is the total monthly expense amount the borrower(s) is currently making for the primary
residence occupied by the borrower(s).
A housing payment can only include the following:
rental housing payment,
PITIA payment and/or leasehold payment for mortgaged properties, or
property taxes and/or leasehold payments for non-mortgaged properties.
See B3-6-01, General Information on Liabilities and B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations for additional information.
If not otherwise documented as one of the borrower's existing liabilities, the lender must document the
borrower's housing payment. Documentation may include, but is not limited to:
direct veriﬁcation of rent from a management company,
bank statements reﬂecting a payment to an organization or individual,
cancelled checks or equivalent, or
evidence of property taxes paid.
The following tables provide restrictions on the amount of rental income that may be used for qualifying
purposes based on various borrower and rental income scenarios.
Subject Property
Property Type
Current
Primary
Housing
Payment
Property
Management
Experience
Restrictions on Rental Income Used
to Qualify
Published June 3, 2026
394
Subject Property
2-4 Unit Primary
Residence
Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying has no
restrictions
No Rental income used in qualifying may not
exceed the PITIA
No NA No rental income can be used in qualifying
1 Unit Primary
Residence with
ADU
Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying is limited
to 30% of the total qualifying income
No
Rental income used in qualifying is limited
to 30% of the total qualifying income and
cannot exceed PITIA
No NA No rental income can be used in qualifying
1-4 Unit
Investment
Property
Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying has no
restrictions
No Rental income can only be used to oﬀset
the PITIA of the related property
No NA No rental income can be used in qualifying
Non-Subject Property
Property Type
Current
Primary
Housing
Expense
Property
Management
Experience
Restrictions on Rental Income
Used to Qualify
Published June 3, 2026
395
Non-Subject Property
2-4 Unit Primary
Residence Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying
has no restrictions
No Rental income used in qualifying
may not exceed the PITIA
1-4 Unit Investment
Property - new or newly
placed in service
(includes departing
residence)
Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying
has no restrictions
No
Rental income can only be used to
oﬀset the PITIA of the related
property
No NA No rental income can be used in
qualifying
1-4 Unit Investment
Property - existing
rental (one year of
receiving rental income)
Yes
Yes Rental income used in qualifying
has no restrictions
No
See Treatment of the Income (or Loss) below for how to apply rental income.
Note: Rental income reported on IRS Form 8825 of federal business tax returns is reported as self-
employment income.
The lender must establish a history of property management experience by obtaining one of the following:
The borrower’s most recent signed federal income tax return, including Schedules 1 and E. Schedule E
should reﬂect rental income received for any property and Fair Rental Days of 365;
If the property has been owned for at least one year, but there are less than 365 Fair Rental Days on
Schedule E
a current signed lease agreement may be used to supplement the federal income tax return; or
two years of the most recent federal income tax returns reﬂecting rental income received may be
obtained to document that the property was in service for the full year (for example: a short-term
rental income for more than one year, but the fair rental days are less than 365 in each year).
A current signed lease may be used to supplement a federal income tax return if the property was out of
service for any time period in the prior year. Schedule E must support this by reﬂecting a reduced
number of days in use and related repair costs. 
See Lease Agreements, Form 1007, or Form 1025 below for further information.
Published June 3, 2026
396
Method for Calculating the Income
The method for calculating rental income (or loss) for qualifying purposes is dependent upon the documentation
that is being used (that is, Schedule E or a current fully executed lease agreement). The following table provide
examples of diﬀerent methods.
If the supporting document
is...
And the property was in
service... The lender must...
federal tax returns, Schedule E for a full or partial year
average the annual rental
income or loss over 12
months.
a current fully executed lease
agreement supporting monthly
rental amount, and federal tax
returns, including Schedule E
less than the full year, and the
borrower qualiﬁes for a
documented exception to use a
lease agreement to support
monthly rental income
average the rental income (or
loss) over the number of
months the borrower used the
property as a rental unit.
When Schedule E is used to calculate qualifying rental income, the lender must add back any listed
depreciation, interest, homeowners’ association dues, taxes, or insurance expenses to the borrower’s cash ﬂow.
Non-recurring property expenses may be added back, if documented accordingly.
See General Requirements for Documenting Rental Income (Subject and Non-Subject Property), Reconciling
Partial or No Rental History on Tax Returns (Schedule E Only) and Treatment of the Income (or Loss) for further
instructions.
Lease Agreements, Form 1007, or Form 1025
When current lease agreements or market rents reported on Form 1007 or Form 1025 are used, the lender must
calculate the rental income by multiplying the gross monthly rent(s) by 75%. (This is referred to as "Monthly
Market Rent" on the Form 1007.) The remaining 25% of the gross rent will be absorbed by vacancy losses and
ongoing maintenance expenses.
When using a lease agreement, the lease agreement amount must be supported by
Form 1007 or Form 1025, as applicable, or
evidence the terms of the lease have gone into eﬀect. Evidence must include a minimum of:
two months consecutive bank statements or electronic transfers of rental payments for existing
lease agreements, or
copies of the security deposit and ﬁrst full month's rent check with proof of deposit for newly
executed agreements.
See Treatment of the Income (or Loss) below for further instructions.
Published June 3, 2026
397
Treatment of the Income (or Loss)
The treatment and amount of monthly qualifying rental income (described above in Calculating Monthly
Qualifying Rental Income (or Loss)) used in the calculation of the borrower's total debt-to-income ratio — varies
depending on whether the borrower occupies the rental property as their principal residence.
If the rental income relates to the borrower’s principal residence:
The monthly qualifying rental income (as deﬁned above) must be added to the borrower’s total monthly
income. (The income is not netted against the PITIA of the property.)
The full amount of the mortgage payment (PITIA) must be included in the borrower’s total monthly
obligations when calculating the debt-to-income ratio.
If the rental income (or loss) relates to a property other than the borrower's principal residence:
If the monthly qualifying rental income minus the full PITIA is positive, it must be added to the borrower’s
total monthly income (subject to the limits in Calculating Monthly Qualifying Rental Income (or Loss)).
If the monthly qualifying rental income minus PITIA is negative, the monthly net rental loss must be
added to the borrower’s total monthly obligations.
The full PITIA for the rental property is factored into the amount of the net rental income (or loss);
therefore, it should not be counted as a monthly obligation.
The full monthly payment for the borrower's principal residence (full PITIA or monthly rent) must be
counted as a monthly obligation.
Note: When a borrower owns multiple rental properties, the rental income for all non-subject
properties is ﬁrst calculated for each property, then aggregated. The aggregate total of the income (or
loss) is then added to the borrower's total monthly income or included in their monthly obligations, as
applicable.
Oﬀsetting Monthly Obligations for Rental Property Reported through a
Partnership or an S Corporation
If gross rents and related expenses are reported through a partnership or S corporation, then any rental income
(or loss) must be evaluated as self-employment income regardless of the borrower's percentage of ownership
interest or whether the borrower is personally obligated on the mortgage debt. However, if the related property
is reported on the most recent federal business tax return and it's clear the business is responsible for the
payment, the full PITIA can be excluded from the DTI calculation.
When rental property is reported through a partnership or an S corporation, but the borrower is personally
obligated on the mortgage, the property must be included in the count of ﬁnanced properties and is subject to
the requirements for multiple ﬁnanced properties as indicated in B2-2-03, Multiple Financed Properties for the
Same Borrower.
See also B3-3.7-01, Analyzing Partnership Returns for a Partnership or LLC and B3-3.7-02, Analyzing Returns for
an S Corporation.
Published June 3, 2026
398
Rental Income Calculation Tools
Fannie Mae publishes worksheets that lenders may use to calculate rental income. The Income Calculator may
also be used to calculate certain rental income. Use of Income Calculator or these worksheets is optional. The
worksheets are:
Rental Income Worksheet – Principal Residence, 2– to 4–unit Property (Form 1037),
Rental Income Worksheet – Individual Rental Income from Investment Property(s) (up to 4 properties)
(Form 1038),
Rental Income Worksheet – Individual Rental Income from Investment Property(s) (up to 10 properties)
(Form 1038A).
See B3-3.1-03, Income Calculator, for additional information.
Reporting of Gross Monthly Rent
Eligible rents on the subject property (gross monthly rent) must be reported to Fannie Mae in the loan delivery
data for all two- to four-unit principal residence properties and investment properties, regardless of whether the
borrower is using rental income to qualify for the loan. If the borrower is using rental income from the subject
property to qualify for the loan, all of the applicable requirements above must be followed to document and
calculate the income.
If the borrower is not using any rental income from the subject property to qualify, gross monthly rent must be
documented only for lender reporting purposes. The borrower can provide one of the sources listed above, or
may provide one of the following sources (listed in order of preference):
the appraisal report for a one-unit investment property or two- to four-unit property, or Single-Family
Comparable Rent Schedule (Form 1007), provided neither the applicable appraisal nor Form 1007 is
dated 12 months or more prior to the date of the note;
if the property is not currently rented, the lender may use the opinion of market rents provided by the
appraiser; or
if an appraisal or Form 1007 is not required for the transaction, the lender may rely upon either a signed
lease from the borrower or may obtain a statement from the borrower of the gross monthly rent being
charged (or to be charged) for the property. The monthly rental amounts must be stated separately for
each unit in a two- to four-unit property. The disclosure from the borrower must be in the form of one of
the following:
a written statement from the borrower, or
an addition to the Form 1003.
The lender must retain the documentation in the loan ﬁle that was relied upon to determine the amount of
eligible rent reported.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
399
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-08 October 08, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-01 February 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
Announcement-SEL-2018-06 August 07, 2018
 
Chapter B3-4, Asset Assessment
Introduction
This chapter explains asset assessment for qualifying, underwriting, and documentation purposes.
Section B3-4.1, General Asset Requirements