SECTION: B3-3.7-01
TITLE: Analyzing Partnership Returns for a Partnership or LLC
EFFECTIVE: 02/07/2024
PAGES: 399-401
---
Published June 3, 2026
381
Documentation Requirements
The following table describes the documentation the borrower must provide. 
✓ Documentation Requirements
 
the most recent one or two years of signed individual federal income tax returns—IRS Form
1040 including IRS Schedule K-1, in accordance with the requirements in B3-3.5-01,
Underwriting Factors and Documentation for a Self-Employed Borrower. 
 
• the most recent two years of business federal income tax returns (IRS Form 1065 or IRS
Form 1120S), unless the requirements to waive business tax returns have been met; or
• the most recent one year of business federal income tax returns, in accordance with the
requirements in B3-3.5-01, Underwriting Factors and Documentation for a Self-Employed
Borrower.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Section B3-3.7, Self-Employment Documentation Requirements for a Business
B3-3.7-01, Analyzing Partnership Returns for a Partnership or LLC
(02/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on analyzing partnership returns for a partnership or LLC, including:
Overview
Evaluating the Business Income
Borrower’s Proportionate Share of Income or Loss
Adjustments to Business Cash Flow
Published June 3, 2026
382
Income from Partnerships, LLCs, Estates, and Trusts
Overview
Partnerships and some LLCs use IRS Form 1065 for ﬁling informational federal income tax returns for the
partnership or LLC. The partner’s or member-owner’s share of income (or loss) is carried over to IRS Form 1040,
Schedule E. See B3-3.5-02, Business Structures, for more information on partnerships and LLCs.
A borrower with an ownership interest in a partnership or LLC may receive income in the form of wages or other
compensation from the partnership or LLC in addition to the borrower’s proportionate share of income (or loss)
reported on the Schedule K-1.
Evaluating the Business Income
When the borrower has 25% or more ownership interest in the business and business tax returns are required,
the lender must perform a business cash ﬂow analysis and evaluate the overall ﬁnancial position of the
borrower’s business to determine whether
income is stable and consistent, and
sales and earnings trends are positive.
If the business does not meet these standards, business income cannot be used to qualify the borrower.
Borrower’s Proportionate Share of Income or Loss
The borrower’s proportionate share of income or loss is based on the borrower’s partnership percentage of
Ending Capital in the business as shown on IRS Form 1065, Schedule K-1.
The lender can only consider the borrower’s proportionate share of the business income or loss after making the
adjustments to the business cash ﬂow analysis discussed below.
Adjustments to Business Cash Flow
Items that can be added back to the business cash ﬂow include depreciation, depletion, amortization, casualty
losses, and other losses that are not consistent and recurring.
The following items should be subtracted from the business cash ﬂow:
travel and meals exclusion,
other reported income that is not consistent and recurring, and
the total amount of obligations on mortgages, notes, or bonds that are payable in less than one year.
These adjustments are not required for lines of credit or if there is evidence that these obligations roll over
Published June 3, 2026
383
regularly and/or the business has suﬃcient liquid assets to cover them.
Income from Partnerships, LLCs, Estates, and Trusts
Income from partnerships, LLCs, estates, or trusts can only be considered if the lender obtains documentation
verifying that
the income was actually distributed to the borrower consistent with the level of business income reﬂected
on Schedule K-1, or
the business has adequate liquidity to support the withdrawal of earnings. 
The lender may use discretion in selecting the method to conﬁrm that the business has adequate liquidity to
support the withdrawal of earnings. When business tax returns are provided, for example, the lender may
calculate a ratio using a generally accepted formula that measures business liquidity by deriving the proportion
of current assets available to meet current liabilities.
It is important that the lender select a business liquidity formula based on how the business operates. For
example:
The Quick Ratio (also known as the Acid Test Ratio) is appropriate for businesses that rely heavily on
inventory to generate income. This test excludes inventory from current assets in calculating the
proportion of current assets available to meet current liabilities.
Quick Ratio = (current assets — inventory) ÷ current liabilities
The Current Ratio (also known as the Working Capital Ratio) may be more appropriate for businesses not
relying on inventory to generate income.
Current Ratio = current assets ÷ current liabilities
While a result of one or greater is generally suﬃcient to conﬁrm adequate business liquidity to support the
withdrawal of earnings, lenders may support adequate liquidity using alternative methods with a documented
rationale.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 