SECTION: B3-3.4-03
TITLE: Annuity, Pension, or Retirement Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 353-355
---
Published June 3, 2026
335
Criteria Requirements
Income History
• A minimum six-month history is required.
• The payment history must demonstrate the stability of the income, as
reﬂected in the receipt of full, regular, and timely payments.
Note: Lump sum equalization payments are not considered a steady source
of income. 
Income Continuance
The lender must document that the income is expected to continue for at
least three years from the note date.  
Note: Check for limitations such as the age of the children for whom the
support is being paid, or the duration over which alimony is required to be
paid. 
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The monthly payment amount as documented above may be used as
qualifying income.
Note: The full amount of documented qualifying child support income is
nontaxable and may be grossed up. See B3-3.1-01, General Income
Information.
DU Validation Service
If a borrower's alimony or child support income is validated by the DU
validation service, DU will issue a message indicating the required
documentation. This documentation may diﬀer from the requirements
described above for the veriﬁcation of the borrower's regular receipt of the
full payment and its use as stable qualifying income. See  B3-2-02, DU
Validation Service
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Published June 3, 2026
336
B3-3.4-03, Annuity, Pension, or Retirement Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for annuity (government, personal, or insurance), pension, and
retirement income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain veriﬁcation of the income amount using at least one of
the following:
• a statement from the organization providing the income,
• a copy of retirement award letter or beneﬁt statement,
• a copy of ﬁnancial or bank account statement,
• a copy of signed federal income tax return,
• an IRS W-2 form, or
• an IRS 1099 form.
However, if the borrower will begin receiving payments from an annuity or
pension account on or before the ﬁrst payment date of the subject mortgage,
document the income with a beneﬁt statement from the organization providing
the income. The statement must specify the income type, amount and
frequency of the payment, and include conﬁrmation of the initial start date.
Income History Fixed Distribution or ﬁxed payment: No minimum history is required.
Variable Distribution: A minimum 12-month history of receipt is required.
Published June 3, 2026
337
Criteria Requirements
Income Continuance
Insurance/personal annuity or retirement account distribution: The
lender must document that income is expected to continue for at least three
years from the note date.
Distributions or ﬁxed payment from a pension: Document(s) used to
support the monthly income amount may not reference the required minimum
three-year continuance from the note date.  In these situations, the lender
must make the determination using alternative documentation such as, but not
limited to, an applicable written agreement, the respective government
program associated with the distribution, or information required by law or
regulation related to the distribution.
Note: Eligible retirement account balances (from 401(k), IRA, or Keogh) may
be combined for the purpose of determining whether the three-year
continuance requirement is met. The borrower must have unrestricted access
to the accounts without penalty. 
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Fixed Distribution or ﬁxed payment: The monthly payment amount as
documented above may be used as qualifying income.
Variable Distribution: Develop an average of the income received for the
most recent 12 months. 
DU Validation
Service
If a borrower's annuity, pension, or retirement income is validated by the DU
validation service, DU will issue a message indicating the required
documentation. This documentation may diﬀer from the requirements
described above. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service .
 
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic. 
Announcement Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026