SECTION: B3-3.1-04
TITLE: Verbal Verification of Employment
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 324-327
---
Published June 3, 2026
306
When the amount of qualifying income being used by the lender is not more than the amount of income
calculated by Income Calculator, enforcement relief from representations and warranties on the accuracy of the
income calculation may be provided but the lender remains responsible for the accuracy of the information
submitted. See Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties for Loans with Income Calculated by
Income Calculator in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties for
additional details.
Additional Requirements
For loans that use the qualifying income amount calculated by Income Calculator, the lender must also comply
with the requirements in the following table.
✓ Additional Lender Requirements
 Conﬁrm that tax returns meet the allowable age of documents requirements in B1-1-03, Allowable
Age of Credit Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns.
 Ensure all information submitted to Income Calculator is accurate, complete, and reﬂects the
information on the tax returns being used to document the qualifying income.
 Investigate and resolve any contradictory or conﬂicting information that may impact the accuracy of
the income calculation.
 Comply with all other Selling Guide requirements, including DU messages, when applicable, and
requirements in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02  March 04, 2026 
B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment (03/04/2026)
A verbal veriﬁcation of employment (verbal VOE) must be obtained for each borrower using employment or self-
Published June 3, 2026
307
employment income to qualify. The verbal VOE must be obtained within 10 business days prior to the note date
for employment income, and within 120 calendar days prior to the note date for self-employment income. The
verbal VOE requirement is intended to help the lender mitigate risk by conﬁrming, as late in the process as
possible, that the borrower remains employed as disclosed on the loan application. A change in the borrower’s
employment status could have a signiﬁcant impact on that borrower’s capacity to repay the mortgage loan and
must be fully reevaluated.
Alternatively, the lender may obtain the verbal VOE after closing, up to the time of loan delivery. If the verbal
VOE (or allowable alternative) cannot be obtained prior to delivery, the loan is ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
The following table describes the requirements for a verbal VOE and allowable alternatives.
Published June 3, 2026
308
Type of Income Requirements
Hourly, Salary, and
Commission Income (Non-
Military)
Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment:
• The lender must independently obtain a phone number and, if possible, an address for the borrower's
employer. This can be accomplished by using a telephone book, the Internet, directory assistance, or by
contacting the applicable licensing bureau.
• The lender must contact the employer verbally and conﬁrm the borrower's current employment status
within 10 business days prior to the note date.
Note: If the employer conﬁrms the borrower is currently on temporary leave, the lender must consider
the borrower “employed.” See  B3-3.3-09, Temporary Leave Income , for details on temporary leave.
• The conversation must be documented. It should include the following:
    ⚬ name and title of the person who conﬁrmed the employment for the lender,
    ⚬ name and title of the person who completed the veriﬁcation for the employer,
    ⚬ date of the call, and
    ⚬ the source of the phone number.
Alternative Methods to Verify Employment:
• The lender can obtain a written veriﬁcation conﬁrming the borrower’s current employment status within
10 business days prior to the note date. The written documentation must include the name and title of
the person who completed the veriﬁcation for the employer.
• The lender can obtain an email exchange with the borrower's employer from the employer's work email
address within 10 business days prior to the note date.
    ⚬ The lender must conduct additional due diligence to conﬁrm that the email address for the employer
is accurate. Examples of due diligence include, but are not limited to, searches of domain name on
employer website (review for match to employer email address), employer directory on the internet, or
other professional networking or business proﬁle websites.
    ⚬ The email exchange must include borrower's name and employer's name; name, title, and work
email address of the individual contacted at the employer; date of contact; and borrower's current
employment status.
• Within 15 business days prior to the note date, the borrower can provide either
    ⚬ the most recent paystub as of that date that, meets the requirements in B3-3.2-01, Standards for
Employment and Income Documentation; reﬂects information for the most recent expected pay period
based on the date it is provided and the borrower's pay cadence; and does not include any information
indicating the borrower may not be actively employed.
• Bank statements dated no earlier than 15 business days prior to the note date that
    ⚬ meet the requirements in B3-4.2-01, Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets,
    ⚬ reﬂects information for the most recent expected pay period based on the date of the statement and
the borrower's pay cadence, and
    ⚬ does not include any information indicating the borrower may not be actively employed.
• If the borrower is a union member who works in an occupation that results in a series of short-term job
assignments (such as a skilled construction worker, longshoreman, or stagehand), and the union
facilitates the borrower’s placement in each assignment, the lender may obtain the verbal VOE from the
union.
• If the employer uses a third-party employment veriﬁcation vendor, the lender must obtain written
veriﬁcation from the vendor of the borrower’s current employment status within the same time frame as
the verbal VOE requirements.
Note:  Because third-party vendor databases are typically updated monthly, the veriﬁcation must
evidence that the information in the vendor's database was no more than 35 days old as of the note date.
When employment is validated by DU, DU includes in its assessment the age of the information in the
vendor’s database. The DU message will include a date by which the loan must close. This may diﬀer
from the age of data and 10 business day requirements above. Compliance with the DU message satisﬁes
the requirement for completing the veriﬁcation of employment. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service.
When employment is initially validated by the DU validation service using an asset veriﬁcation report, but
the loan will not close by the "Close by Date" stated in the validation message, an alternative method of
reverifying employment is permitted using a supplemental asset report. See B3-2-02, DU Validation
Service for additional information.
Published June 3, 2026
309
Type of Income Requirements
Military Personnel
If the borrower is in the military, in lieu of a verbal or written VOE, the lender must obtain either
• a military Leave and Earnings Statement dated within 120 calendar days prior to the note date, or
• a veriﬁcation of employment through the Defense Manpower Data Center. See E-1-02, List of Contacts
for additional information.
Self-Employed Income
The lender must:
• verify the existence of the borrower's business within 120 calendar days prior to the note date
    ⚬ from a third party, such as a CPA, regulatory agency, or the applicable licensing bureau, if possible;
or
    ⚬ by verifying a phone listing and address for the borrower's business using a telephone book, the
internet, or directory assistance.
• document the source of the information obtained and the name and title of the lender's employee who
obtained the information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02  March 04, 2026 
Section B3-3.2, Requirements for Employment-Related Income
B3-3.2-01, Standards for Employment and Income Documentation
(03/04/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the standards for documentation of employment income, including:
General Documentation Requirements
Documentation Provided by the Borrower
Documentation Provided by the Borrower's Employer
Documentation Provided by a Third-Party Employment Veriﬁcation Vendor
General Documentation Requirements