SECTION: B3-3.3-05
TITLE: Military Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 342-343
---
Published June 3, 2026
324
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-05, Military Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for military income, including base pay and allowances.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain the borrower's most recent Leave and Earnings
Statement (LES) dated within 120 days of the note date.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Income History
Active Duty: There is no set minimum history requirement for inclusion as
qualifying income.
National Guard/Reserves: A minimum 12-month history is required.
Income Continuance
Military personnel may be entitled to diﬀerent types of pay ("allowances") in
addition to their base pay, including but not limited to ﬂight or hazard pay,
rations, clothing allowance, quarters' allowance, and proﬁciency pay. The
lender must carefully examine allowances that a service member receives
based on their location or the nature of their job duties. The lender may
include these allowances as qualifying income provided there is no indication
that the income amount will be lowered, in which case the lower amount
must be used for qualifying, or discontinued altogether.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender may include the full amount of the borrower's monthly base pay
and allowances as qualifying income.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
325
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-06, Mortgage Diﬀerential Payments Income (03/04/2026)
Mortgage diﬀerential payments from a borrower's employer are intended to subsidize the borrower's mortgage
payments by paying all or part of the interest diﬀerential between the borrower's past and current mortgage
payments.
The following table provides requirements for mortgage diﬀerential payment income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain written veriﬁcation from the borrower's employer
conﬁrming the subsidy and stating the amount and duration of the
payments, such as a written agreement between the borrower and
employer.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation
of Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Income History There is no set minimum history requirement for inclusion as qualifying
income.
Income Continuance The lender must document that the income is expected to continue for at
least three years from the note date.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender may add the full amount of the payment to the borrower's
monthly income, and not as an oﬀset to the mortgage payment.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.