SECTION: B3-3.6-01
TITLE: General Information on Analyzing Individual Tax Returns
EFFECTIVE: 06/05/2019
PAGES: 390-391
---
Published June 3, 2026
372
IRS Form Number Title
Form W-4 Employee’s Withholding Allowance Certiﬁcate
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
Section B3-3.6, Self-Employment Documentation Requirements for an Individual
B3-3.6-01, General Information on Analyzing Individual Tax Returns
(06/05/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on analyzing individual tax returns.
Analyzing Individual Tax Returns
Analyzing Individual Tax Returns
In analyzing a self-employed borrower’s personal income, the lender should focus on earnings trends and the
actual sources of the income, not just on the total amount of the income. The lender must conﬁrm the stability
and likelihood of continuance for each source of income that the borrower reports on their IRS Form 1040. The
lender should not include any income that does not appear to be stable or likely to continue. The lender should,
however, consider all recurring income that the borrower can expect to continue receiving over time.
Income may be considered as recurring if the loan application package does not include any speciﬁc indication
of an upcoming change in the borrower’s employment or income, the borrower’s employment history has no
gaps or other signiﬁcant ﬂuctuations in income, and any income received under a contractual agreement (other
than an “at will” contract) will continue to be received for at least three years.
Published June 3, 2026
373
Examples of recurring income include:
regular salaries or wages,
bonus or commission income that has been received on a consistent basis,
interest income from long-term investments that are not being liquidated in connection with the
mortgage transaction, and
earnings from the operation of the borrower’s business.
Any nonrecurring loss (such as an extraordinary one-time expense) should not be included in the cash ﬂow
analysis; therefore, in developing the borrower’s qualifying income, the lender should adjust the borrower’s cash
ﬂow by the amount of any nonrecurring loss.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 
B3-3.6-02, Income Reported on IRS Form 1040 (05/15/2012)
Introduction
This topic contains information on income reported on IRS Form 1040, including:
Overview
Wages, Salary, and Tips
Interest and Dividend Income
State and Local Tax Refunds
Alimony Received
IRA Distributions, Pensions and Annuities, and Social Security Beneﬁts
Unemployment Compensation
Other Income (or Loss)
Overview
To get an accurate picture of the borrower’s cash ﬂow, the lender will need to make certain adjustments to
some of the income (or loss) that the borrower reported on IRS Form 1040 since it may not be recurring income.
The lender also may need to further analyze the accompanying tax schedules or supplemental tax forms.