SECTION: B3-3.4-09
TITLE: Long-term Disability Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 364-365
---
Published June 3, 2026
346
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income, the
lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using the
most recent two years personal federal income tax returns.
• Decreasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most
recent year personal federal income tax returns.
Note: Subtract any assets used for down payment or closing costs from
the borrower's total assets before calculating expected future interest or
dividend income.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-09, Long-term Disability Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for long-term disability income. It does not apply to disability income
that is received from the Social Security Administration. See B3-3.4-15, Social Security Income, for additional
information.
Published June 3, 2026
347
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a copy of the borrower's disability policy or beneﬁts statement from the
beneﬁts payer (insurance company, employer, or other qualiﬁed
disinterested party) to determine:
    ⚬ the borrower's current eligibility for the disability beneﬁts,
    ⚬ the amount and frequency of the disability payments, and
    ⚬ if there is a contractually established termination or modiﬁcation date.
Additionally, the lender must obtain evidence that the borrower will receive
at least one payment on or before the ﬁrst payment due date.
Income History No minimum history is required.
Income Continuance
Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue. (Re-evaluation of beneﬁts is not
considered a reason to support income will not continue.)
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The monthly income amount as documented above may be used as
qualifying income.
However, if a borrower is currently receiving short-term disability payments
that will decrease to a lesser amount within the next three years because
they are being converted to long-term beneﬁts, the amount of the long-term
beneﬁts must be used as income to qualify the borrower. For additional
information on short-term disability, see B3-3.3-09, Temporary Leave
Income.
DU Validation Service 
If a borrower's long-term disability income is validated by the DU validation
service, DU will issue a message indicating the required documentation. This
documentation may diﬀer from the requirements described above. See
B3-2-02, DU Validation Service.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcement related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026