SECTION: B3-3.3-02
TITLE: Bonus, Commission, Overtime, and Tip Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 335-337
---
Published June 3, 2026
317
Criteria Requirements
Income History A minimum 12-month history of receiving variable income is required.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason
to believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender must calculate income using one of the two methods below. 
1. Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income,
the lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using
year-to-date and previous year's earning. The calculation must include a
minimum of 12 months' income.
• Decreasing: The lender must conﬁrm the current income level has
stabilized after the decline; otherwise, the income is not eligible for
qualifying. To calculate income, use the year-to-date income divided by
months elapsed in the current year.
2. Average Hours: The lender must multiply the average monthly hours
(based on at least the most recent 12 months) by the current ﬁxed hourly
rate.
Note: When a documented, non-recurring event outside the borrower's
control temporarily prevented them from earning income, the lender may
exclude that period from the income calculation.
The pay raise policy in B3-3.2-02, Standards for Employment-Related
Income  does not apply to variable income. Any pay raises for variable
base income must be in place prior to closing.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-02, Bonus, Commission, Overtime, and Tip Income
Published June 3, 2026
318
(03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for bonus, commission, overtime and tip income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a completed Request for Veriﬁcation of Employment ( Form 1005), or
• the most recent paystub and two years’ W-2s.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment for speciﬁc requirements.
Note: For tip income not reported by the employer, two years’ personal tax
returns with IRS Form 4137 may be provided in lieu of a W-2.
Income History
A minimum two-year history is recommended; however, income received for
a shorter period, but no less than 12 months, may be considered as
acceptable if there are positive factors to reasonably oﬀset the shorter
income history.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Published June 3, 2026
319
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender must determine the income frequency (for example, weekly,
biweekly, monthly, quarterly, or annually) to accurately calculate the monthly
income amount.  Once the monthly year-to-date income amount is
determined, it must be compared to the earnings from previous years.
Depending on the historical trend of the income, the lender must calculate
qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using year-to-
date and previous year’s earnings, divided by the number of months included
in the year-to-date paystub and W-2s. The calculation must include a
minimum of 12 months’ income.
• Decreasing: The lender must conﬁrm the current income level has
stabilized after the decline; otherwise, the income is not eligible for
qualifying. To calculate income, use the year-to-date income divided by
months elapsed since the income stabilized.
 
When bonus income is used for qualiﬁcation, the lender must calculate the
monthly amount accurately for use in the trending analysis. For example, if a
borrower receives an annual bonus on March 31st of each year, the bonus
income should be annualized (divided by 12) to determine the appropriate
monthly bonus amount. The lender must also ensure that all supporting
documentation in the ﬁle supports the income used in the qualiﬁcation
process.
 
Note: When a documented, non-recurring event outside the borrower’s
control temporarily prevented them from earning income, the lender may
exclude that period from the income calculation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026