SECTION: B3-3.4-02
TITLE: Alimony, Child Support, Equalization Payments, or Separate Maintenance
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 352-353
---
Published June 3, 2026
334
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-02, Alimony, Child Support, Equalization Payments, or
Separate Maintenance (03/04/2026)
The lender may include alimony, child support, equalization payments, or separate maintenance as income only
if the borrower discloses it on the Uniform Residential Loan Application and requests that it be considered in
qualifying for the loan.
The following table provides requirements for alimony, child support, equalization payments, or separate
maintenance. 
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain evidence of the payment amount and terms using
one of the following:
• a copy of a divorce decree or separation agreement (if the divorce is not
ﬁnal)
Note: If a borrower who is separated does not have a separation agreement
that speciﬁes alimony or child support payments, the lender should not
consider any proposed or voluntary payments as income.
• any other type of written legal agreement or court decree describing the
payment terms, or
• documentation that veriﬁes any applicable state law that mandates
alimony, child support, equalization payments, or separate maintenance
payments.
Additionally, the lender must document receipt of income for the most
recent six months using sources including, but not limited to:
• bank statements,
• cancelled checks, or
• evidence of other electronic receipt of payments.
Published June 3, 2026
335
Criteria Requirements
Income History
• A minimum six-month history is required.
• The payment history must demonstrate the stability of the income, as
reﬂected in the receipt of full, regular, and timely payments.
Note: Lump sum equalization payments are not considered a steady source
of income. 
Income Continuance
The lender must document that the income is expected to continue for at
least three years from the note date.  
Note: Check for limitations such as the age of the children for whom the
support is being paid, or the duration over which alimony is required to be
paid. 
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The monthly payment amount as documented above may be used as
qualifying income.
Note: The full amount of documented qualifying child support income is
nontaxable and may be grossed up. See B3-3.1-01, General Income
Information.
DU Validation Service
If a borrower's alimony or child support income is validated by the DU
validation service, DU will issue a message indicating the required
documentation. This documentation may diﬀer from the requirements
described above for the veriﬁcation of the borrower's regular receipt of the
full payment and its use as stable qualifying income. See  B3-2-02, DU
Validation Service
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026