SECTION: B3-3.4-07
TITLE: Foster-Care Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 362-363
---
Published June 3, 2026
344
B3-3.4-07, Foster-Care Income (03/04/2026)
Income received from a state-or county-sponsored organization for providing temporary care for one or more
children may be considered an acceptable stable income source if the following requirements are met.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
• evidence of the payment amount(s) by using letters of veriﬁcation from
the state- or county-sponsored organization(s) providing the income, and
• receipt of income documented for the most recent 12 or 24-months,
based on the income history requirement below, using sources including,
but not limited to:
    ⚬ bank statements,
    ⚬ canceled checks, or
    ⚬ other electronic receipt of payments.
Income History
A two-year history of providing foster-care services is expected, however,
if the borrower has not received this type of income for two full years, the
income may still be counted as stable income if
• the borrower has at least a 12-month history of providing foster-care
services, and
• the income does not represent more than 30% of the total gross income
that is used to qualify for the mortgage loan.
Income Continuance Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income, the
lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or increasing: Calculate an average income amount using the
most recent 12 or 24 months, based on the income history requirements
above.
• Decreasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most
recent 12 months.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
345
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-08, Interest and Dividend Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides veriﬁcation requirements for interest and dividends income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
• copies of the borrower's signed personal federal income tax returns for
the most recent two years, or
• copies of account statements that cover the most recent 24 months.
Additionally, the lender must verify the borrower's ownership of the assets
on which the interest or dividend income was earned. Documentation of
asset ownership must be in compliance with the Allowable Age of Credit
Documents policy (see B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit Documents and
Federal Income Tax Returns, for additional information).
Income History A minimum two-year history is required.
Income Continuance Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless there is evidence
that the asset will be depleted.