SECTION: B3-3.4-16
TITLE: Trust Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 374-376
---
Published June 3, 2026
356
If joint tax returns or tax transcripts include income that is not associated with a borrower on the loan
transaction, the lender must obtain additional documentation supporting the amount of income from the
SSA being used in qualifying, such as the SSA-1099.
2
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-16, Trust Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for trust income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain one or more of the following trust veriﬁcation documents
to conﬁrm the amount, frequency, type of income being received, and the date
the trust was created:
• a copy of the trust agreement,
• the trustee's statement (provided the borrower is not the trustee),
• the trust's federal income tax returns, or
• a letter from an accountant or attorney who reviewed the trust documents,
when the above documents are not available or when the borrower is the trustee.
Trust income with variable payments also requires a minimum 24-month history
of trust income by obtaining copies of the following:
• the borrower's signed federal tax income tax returns for the most recent two
years, or
• the trust's federal income tax returns for the most recent two years.
Additionally, the lender must document receipt of the income for at least one
month using sources including, but not limited to:
• bank statements,
• cancelled checks, or
• evidence of other electronic receipt of payments.
Published June 3, 2026
357
Criteria Requirements
Income History
Fixed payments: The lender must conﬁrm the trust was established for 12
months or longer, unless all of the following requirements are met:
• the trust veriﬁcation documentation reﬂects ﬁxed payments,
• the borrower is not the grantor, and
• at least one payment is received prior to closing.
Variable payments: A minimum 24-month history is required.
Note: Trusts created in the previous 12 months using a borrower's eligible
employment-related assets, as deﬁned in B3-3.4-06, Employment Related Assets
as Qualifying Income, may still be used as stable income but must meet the
income calculation and all other requirements in that topic.
Income
Continuance
The lender must conﬁrm continuance of income based on the type of income
received through the trust. For example, if the income from the trust is derived
from rental income, then three-year continuance in not required. However, if the
income is a ﬁxed payment derived from a depleting asset, the lender must
document that income is expected to continue for at least three years from the
note date.
Note: If any assets from the trust are being used for down payment, closing
costs, or reserves, those assets must be subtracted from the total amount before
determining if the trust income meets these Income Continuance requirements.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Fixed Payments Variable Payments
The lender must use the ﬁxed
payment amount from the trust
veriﬁcation documentation as the
borrower's qualifying income,
converting it to a monthly amount, as
applicable.
The lender must develop an
average of the income received
for the most recent two years.
Note: Income received from 12 to
24 months may be considered as
acceptable income when other
positive factors are present that
reasonably oﬀset a shorter
income history.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcement related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
358
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-17, Unemployment Beneﬁts Income (03/04/2026)
Income from unemployment beneﬁts can be considered when qualifying the borrower in the following scenarios:
The income has been consistently received for at least two years as veriﬁed by copies of the singed
federal income tax returns that reﬂect unemployment income is associated with seasonal employment.
See B3-3.3-08, Seasonal Income for additional information.
The income from unemployment beneﬁts can be used in the calculation of ﬁnancial resources that are
required under Option 2 in B3-3.3-03, Employment Oﬀers or Contracts.
The income from unemployment beneﬁts may be used in qualifying a borrower for a high LTV reﬁnance
loan. See B5-7-03, High LTV Reﬁnance Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path.
The table below provides requirements for unemployment beneﬁts income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation The lender must obtain two years of signed personal federal income
tax returns.
Income History A minimum two-year history is required.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have
reason to believe the income may not continue.
Determination of Qualifying
Income
Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income,
the lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using
the most recent two years personal federal income tax returns.
• Decreasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most
recent year personal federal income tax returns.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.