SECTION: B3-3.6-04
TITLE: Income or Loss Reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule D
EFFECTIVE: 11/13/2012
PAGES: 394-395
---
Published June 3, 2026
376
The income (or loss) from a borrower’s sole proprietorship is calculated on IRS Form 1040, Schedule C, then
transferred to IRS Form 1040.
The lender may need to make certain adjustments to the net proﬁt or loss shown on Schedule C to arrive at the
borrower’s cash ﬂow. For example, Schedule C may include income that was not obtained from the proﬁts of the
borrower’s business. If the lender determines that such income is not recurring, it should adjust the borrower’s
cash ﬂow by deducting the nonrecurring income.
See B3-3.5-02, Business Structures, for more information on sole proprietorships.
Recurring vs. Non-recurring Income and Expenses
The lender must determine whether income is recurring or non-recurring.
Non-recurring income must be deducted in the cash ﬂow analysis, including any exclusion for meals and
entertainment expenses reported by the borrower on Schedule C.
The following recurring items claimed by the borrower on Schedule C must be added back to the cash ﬂow
analysis: depreciation, depletion, business use of a home, amortization, and casualty losses.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-3.6-04, Income or Loss Reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule D
(11/13/2012)
Introduction
This topic contains information on income or loss reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule D, including:
Overview
Calculating Borrower Cash Flow from Schedule D and Required Documentation
Overview
IRS Form 1040, Schedule D, is used to report capital gains and losses. Income received from a capital gain is
generally a one-time transaction; therefore, it should not usually be considered part of the borrower’s stable
monthly income.
Calculating Borrower Cash Flow from Schedule D and Required Documentation
Published June 3, 2026
377
If the income calculated on the Schedule D shows that the borrower has realized capital gains for the last two
years, as may be the case when the borrower’s business has a constant turnover of assets that produces
regular gains, the recurring gains can be considered in determining the borrower’s stable monthly income. In
this case, the borrower must provide evidence of ownership of additional property or assets that can be sold if
extra income is needed to make future mortgage payments.
The table below provides the requirements for calculating cash ﬂow from Schedule D and the associated
required documentation.
If … Then …
recurring capital gains relate to the sale of
business property,
lenders must obtain a copy of the applicable Sale of
Business Property (IRS Form 4797) to support the
recurring nature of the capital gains.
Schedule D includes principal payments on an
installment sales contract,
lenders must obtain a copy of
• the Installment Sale Income (IRS Form 6252), and
• the note or contract to verify that the borrower
will continue to receive the payments for at least
three years.
the capital gain on the principal payment and
interest income from an installment sales contract
is determined to be nonrecurring,
the amount must be deducted from the borrower’s
cash ﬂow.
Note: Capital losses identiﬁed on IRS Form 1040, Schedule D, do not have to be considered when
calculating income or liabilities, even if the losses are recurring.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-3.6-05, Income or Loss Reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule E
(09/30/2014)
Introduction
This topic contains information on income or loss reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule E, including:
Overview
Royalty Income
Rental Income