SECTION: B3-3.3-01
TITLE: Base Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 333-335
---
Published June 3, 2026
315
Section B3-3.3, Sources of Employment-Related Income
B3-3.3-01, Base Income (03/04/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on determining qualifying income for base pay, including:
Overview
Fixed Base Income
Variable Base Income
Overview
Base income is received on a regular basis, independent of additional earnings such as overtime or bonuses. It
is categorized as either ﬁxed or variable:
Fixed base income refers to a set salary or ﬁxed hourly rate with guaranteed minimum hours. These
hours may have minor variances from pay period to pay period which does not alone preclude the
borrower’s income from being considered ﬁxed base income.
Variable base income refers to a ﬁxed hourly rate with ﬂuctuating hours, or an hourly rate that varies.
 
Fixed Base Income
The following table provides requirements for ﬁxed base income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a completed Request for Veriﬁcation of Employment ( Form 1005), or
• the most recent paystub and most recent W-2.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Income History A minimum history is not required for inclusion as qualifying income.
Published June 3, 2026
316
Criteria Requirements
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender must calculate ﬁxed base income as shown in the following table.
How Often Paid How to Determine Monthly Income
Annually Annual gross pay / 12 months
Monthly Use monthly gross payment amount
Twice Monthly Twice monthly gross pay x 2 pay periods
Biweekly (Biweekly gross pay x 26 pay periods) / 12 months
Weekly (Weekly gross pay x 52 pay periods) / 12 months
Hourly (Hourly gross pay x average # of hours worked per
week x 52 weeks) / 12 months
The borrower's qualifying income must be consistent with year-to-date base
earnings. If year-to-date income does not reﬂect at least 30 days' of earnings,
the lender must conﬁrm qualifying income is consistent with the prior year's
earnings.
Variable Base Income
The following table provides requirements for variable base income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a completed Request for Veriﬁcation of Employment (Form 1005), or
• the most recent paystub and most recent W-2.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation
of Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
317
Criteria Requirements
Income History A minimum 12-month history of receiving variable income is required.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason
to believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The lender must calculate income using one of the two methods below. 
1. Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income,
the lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using
year-to-date and previous year's earning. The calculation must include a
minimum of 12 months' income.
• Decreasing: The lender must conﬁrm the current income level has
stabilized after the decline; otherwise, the income is not eligible for
qualifying. To calculate income, use the year-to-date income divided by
months elapsed in the current year.
2. Average Hours: The lender must multiply the average monthly hours
(based on at least the most recent 12 months) by the current ﬁxed hourly
rate.
Note: When a documented, non-recurring event outside the borrower's
control temporarily prevented them from earning income, the lender may
exclude that period from the income calculation.
The pay raise policy in B3-3.2-02, Standards for Employment-Related
Income  does not apply to variable income. Any pay raises for variable
base income must be in place prior to closing.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-02, Bonus, Commission, Overtime, and Tip Income