SECTION: B3-3.6-02
TITLE: Income Reported on IRS Form 1040
EFFECTIVE: 05/15/2012
PAGES: 391-393
---
Published June 3, 2026
373
Examples of recurring income include:
regular salaries or wages,
bonus or commission income that has been received on a consistent basis,
interest income from long-term investments that are not being liquidated in connection with the
mortgage transaction, and
earnings from the operation of the borrower’s business.
Any nonrecurring loss (such as an extraordinary one-time expense) should not be included in the cash ﬂow
analysis; therefore, in developing the borrower’s qualifying income, the lender should adjust the borrower’s cash
ﬂow by the amount of any nonrecurring loss.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 
B3-3.6-02, Income Reported on IRS Form 1040 (05/15/2012)
Introduction
This topic contains information on income reported on IRS Form 1040, including:
Overview
Wages, Salary, and Tips
Interest and Dividend Income
State and Local Tax Refunds
Alimony Received
IRA Distributions, Pensions and Annuities, and Social Security Beneﬁts
Unemployment Compensation
Other Income (or Loss)
Overview
To get an accurate picture of the borrower’s cash ﬂow, the lender will need to make certain adjustments to
some of the income (or loss) that the borrower reported on IRS Form 1040 since it may not be recurring income.
The lender also may need to further analyze the accompanying tax schedules or supplemental tax forms.
Published June 3, 2026
374
This section describes how the lender should treat various components of the income (or loss) that a self-
employed borrower reported on IRS Form 1040 in its cash ﬂow analysis.
Note: Eligibility criteria for accepting income from speciﬁc non-business sources is generally the same
as that for salaried or commissioned borrowers (see B3-3.1-01, General Income Information).
Wages, Salary, and Tips
If an amount is shown for wages, salary, or tips for a self-employed borrower, it may mean:
the borrower operates as a corporation and pays himself or herself a salary or
the borrower’s spouse is employed and receives a salary (either from the borrower’s business or from
another employer).
If the income relates to the borrower’s spouse who is employed by another company and the income will be
used in qualifying for the mortgage, the spouse’s income must be veriﬁed directly with their employer since it
may be more appropriate to use the spouse’s current earnings in underwriting the mortgage. Any income that is
based on current earnings or that will not be used for qualifying purposes should be deducted from the
borrower’s cash ﬂow.
Interest and Dividend Income
The taxable interest and dividend income that is reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule B, may be counted as
stable income only if it has been received for the past two years. However, the income cannot be counted if the
borrower is using the interest-bearing or dividend-producing asset as the source of the down payment or closing
costs.
Any taxable interest or dividend income that is not recurring must be deducted from the borrower’s cash ﬂow.
Tax-exempt interest income may be counted as stable income only if it has been received for the past two years
and is expected to continue. If so, this income can be added to the borrower’s cash ﬂow.
State and Local Tax Refunds
Taxable state and local tax refunds, credits, or oﬀsets of state and local income taxes should not be used as
qualifying income since the income was accounted for in the previous year’s tax returns. Therefore, the
borrower’s cash ﬂow must be adjusted accordingly.
Alimony Received
Alimony may be accepted as qualifying income if it meets the requirements described in B3-3.4-02, Alimony,
Child Support, Equalization Payments, or Separate Maintenance. Any reported alimony received that is
determined to be nonrecurring must be deducted from the borrower’s total income reported on IRS Form 1040.
Published June 3, 2026
375
IRA Distributions, Pensions and Annuities, and Social Security Beneﬁts
Income received from IRA distributions, pensions, annuities, and Social Security beneﬁts may be accepted as
qualifying income. See B3-3.4-03, Annuity, Pension, or Retirement Income or B3-3.4-15, Social Security Income,
for speciﬁc requirements.
The nontaxable portion of such recurring income must be added to the borrower’s cash ﬂow. The tax-exempt
portion of income from these sources may be increased to reﬂect the tax savings, as described in B3-3.1-01,
General Income Information. If the income from these sources is determined to be nonrecurring, the income
must be deducted from the borrower’s cash ﬂow.
Unemployment Compensation
Unemployment compensation may be considered as acceptable qualifying income if it meets the requirements
described in B3-3.4-17, Unemployment Beneﬁts Income. Any reported unemployment compensation that is
determined to be nonrecurring must be deducted from the borrower’s cash ﬂow.
Other Income (or Loss)
If the borrower reported income from other sources, the lender must verify that the income is an eligible source
for qualifying purposes per the requirements described in Chapter B3-3, Income Assessment, for the applicable
income source. Income that is determined to be nonrecurring or ineligible for qualifying purposes must be
deducted from the borrower’s cash ﬂow. If the borrower reported any nonrecurring losses, the borrower’s cash
ﬂow should be increased by the amount of the losses.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-3.6-03, Income or Loss Reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule C
(04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on income or loss reported on IRS Form 1040, Schedule C, including:
Income (or Loss) from a Sole Proprietorship
Recurring vs. Non-recurring Income and Expenses
Income (or Loss) from a Sole Proprietorship