SECTION: B3-3.4-15
TITLE: Social Security Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 371-374
---
Published June 3, 2026
353
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
 
B3-3.4-15, Social Security Income (03/04/2026)
Social Security Income
Social Security Income
The following table provides requirements for Social Security income.
Published June 3, 2026
354
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain evidence of regular receipt of payments, as veriﬁed by the
following, depending on the type of beneﬁt and the relationship of the beneﬁciary
(self or other) as shown in the table below.
In addition, an SSA Award letter may be used to document the income if the borrower
is receiving Social Security payments or if the borrower will begin receiving payments
on or before the ﬁrst payment date of the subject mortgage as conﬁrmed by a
recently issued award letter.
Type of Social
Security beneﬁt
Borrower is drawing
Social Security beneﬁts
based on own
account/work record
Borrower is drawing
Social Security
beneﬁts based on
another person's
account/work record
or based on their own
account/work record
for the beneﬁt of
another
1
Retirement
• Social Security
Administration's (SSA)
Award letter,
• SSA-1099,
• Most recent signed
federal income tax returns
(or tax transcripts
2
), or
• Proof of current receipt • SSA Award letter,
• Proof of current
receipt, and
• Three-year
continuance
Disability
• Social Security
Administration's (SSA)
Award letter,
• SSA-1099,
• Most recent signed
federal income tax returns
(or tax transcripts
2
), or
• Proof of current receipt
Survivor Beneﬁts NA
Supplemental
Social Security
Income
• SSA Award letter, and
• Proof of current receipt NA
Published June 3, 2026
355
Criteria Requirements
Income History No minimum history is required.
Income
Continuance
Retirement/Long-Term Disability based on own account/work record: Lenders
are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to believe the income
may not continue.
Other scenarios: The lender must document that income is expected to continue for
at least three years from the note date.
Note: Conﬁrmation of three-year continuance does not require documentation that
provides a deﬁned expiration date and can be assessed by verifying the SSA's
requirements related to the speciﬁc beneﬁt(s) being paid. For example, if the SSA ties
receipt of the beneﬁts to the beneﬁciary's age, conﬁrmation of a three-year
continuance can be met by verifying the beneﬁciary's age supports that beneﬁt(s) will
continue for at least three years from the date of the note date.
Determination of
Qualifying
Income
The monthly income amount as documented above may be used as qualifying
income. 
Note: The lender is not required to provide documentation to support that 15% of the
Social Security income is nontaxable. 
Example:
• Beneﬁt amount: $1,500
• Nontaxable amount: $1,500 x 15% = $225
• Gross-up amount: $225 x 25% = $56 (rounded to the nearest dollar)
• Qualifying income: $1,556 (does not required additional documentation
If the lenders opts to gross-up more than 15% of Social Security income, then
additional documentation to support that nontaxable income must be included in the
loan ﬁle. See B3-3.1-01, General Income Information for nontaxable income
guidelines.
DU Validation
Service
If a borrower's Social Security income is validated by the DU validation service, DU
will issue a message indicating the required documentation. This documentation may
diﬀer from the requirements described above. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service for
additional information.
Examples of how a borrower might draw Social Security beneﬁts from another person's account/work
record and use the income for qualifying:
A borrower may be eligible for beneﬁts from a spouse, ex-spouse, or dependent parents (the
beneﬁt is paid to the borrower on behalf of the spouse, etc.; or
A borrower may use Social Security income received by a dependent (a minor or disabled
dependent).
1
Published June 3, 2026
356
If joint tax returns or tax transcripts include income that is not associated with a borrower on the loan
transaction, the lender must obtain additional documentation supporting the amount of income from the
SSA being used in qualifying, such as the SSA-1099.
2
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-16, Trust Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for trust income.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain one or more of the following trust veriﬁcation documents
to conﬁrm the amount, frequency, type of income being received, and the date
the trust was created:
• a copy of the trust agreement,
• the trustee's statement (provided the borrower is not the trustee),
• the trust's federal income tax returns, or
• a letter from an accountant or attorney who reviewed the trust documents,
when the above documents are not available or when the borrower is the trustee.
Trust income with variable payments also requires a minimum 24-month history
of trust income by obtaining copies of the following:
• the borrower's signed federal tax income tax returns for the most recent two
years, or
• the trust's federal income tax returns for the most recent two years.
Additionally, the lender must document receipt of the income for at least one
month using sources including, but not limited to:
• bank statements,
• cancelled checks, or
• evidence of other electronic receipt of payments.