SECTION: B3-3.3-07
TITLE: Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock Employment Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 344-346
---
Published June 3, 2026
326
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
 
B3-3.3-07, Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock Employment
Income (03/04/2026)
Restricted stock units and restricted stock (referred to collectively as "restricted stock") are granted by an
employer to its employees as a form of compensation based on either performance or time. They can be
awarded as either stock or an equivalent cash value of the number of shares awarded and usually vest over a
certain number of years. After they vest, the employee may sell the shares at the current price or hold the stock
for future sale.
The following table provides requirements for restricted stock income.
Criteria Requirements
Eligibility
• Restricted stock must have vested and been distributed to the borrower
without restrictions.
• Sign-on bonuses received in the form of restricted stock that vest over any
length of time are not eligible to be used as qualifying income.
Published June 3, 2026
327
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain
• a completed Request for Veriﬁcation of Employment ( Form 1005) that
shows restricted stock distributions, or
• the most recent paystub showing receipt of restricted stock income and
two years' W-2s.
The lender must also document the following:
• evidence stock is publicly traded;
• current vesting schedule reﬂecting past and future vesting;
• 200-day moving average stock price (for income paid in shares); and
• brokerage or bank statement showing receipt of previous year(s)
distribution of restricted stock and, at a minimum, the number of vested
shares or cash equivalent.
Additionally, a verbal VOE is required. See B3-3.1-04, Verbal Veriﬁcation of
Employment, for speciﬁc requirements.
Income History
Performance-based awards:
A minimum two-year history is recommended; however, income received for
a shorter period, but no less than 12 months, may be considered acceptable
if there are positive factors to reasonably oﬀset the shorter income history,
such as
• future vesting equal or greater than previous vesting and that will continue
for at least 24 months; or
• restricted stock income received for the previous 5 years from any
employer.
Time-based awards:
A minimum 12-month history from the current employer is required.
Income Continuance
Performance-based awards:
The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Time-based awards:
• For one-time awards: The lender must document that income on the
vesting schedule is expected to continue for at least three years from the
note date.
• For recurring awards: The lender is not required to verify continuance
unless they have reason to believe the income may not continue.
Published June 3, 2026
328
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
The calculation method for restricted stock income will vary depending on
whether payment is made in shares or cash.
For income paid in shares: 
(200-day moving average of share price x total number of distributed vested
shares (pre-tax) in most recent 24 months) / 24 months
For income paid in cash:
The cash distributed (pre-tax) equal to the total value of vested shares in the
most recent 24 months / 24 months
Note: When the borrower has a history of income ranging from 12-24
months, the lender may use the actual number of months the borrower has
received the income rather than 24 months.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.3-08, Seasonal Income (03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for seasonal income.