SECTION: B3-3.4-06
TITLE: Employment Related Assets as Qualifying Income
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 358-362
---
Published June 3, 2026
340
Criteria Requirements
Determination
of Qualifying
Income
Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income, the lender must calculate
qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or Increasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most recent two years
personal federal income tax returns.
• Decreasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most recent year personal federal
income tax returns.
Note: Capital losses identiﬁed on IRS Form 1040, Schedule D, do not have to be considered when
calculating income or liabilities, even if the losses are recurring.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-06, Employment Related Assets as Qualifying Income
(03/04/2026)
The following table provides requirements for employment-related assets that may be used as qualifying
income.
Published June 3, 2026
341
Criteria Requirements
Eligibility
If the loan does not meet the below parameters, employment-related assets may
still be eligible under other standard income guidelines, such as B3-3.4-08, Interest
and Dividend Income or B3-3.4-03, Annuity, Pension, or Retirement Income.
Loan Parameter Requirement
Max LTV, CLTV, and
HCLTV Ratio
• 70%, or
• 80% if the owner of the asset(s) being used to
qualify is at least 62 years old at the time of
closing. If the asset is jointly owned, all owners
must be a borrower on the loan and the borrower
using the income to qualify must be at least 62
years old at the time of closing.
Loan Purpose Purchase and limited cash-out reﬁnance only
Occupancy Principal residence and second home only
Number of Units As permitted by occupancy type
Published June 3, 2026
342
Criteria Requirements
Asset
Requirements
• Assets used for the calculation of the monthly income stream must be owned
individually by the borrower, or the co-owner of the assets must be a co-borrower
on the loan.
• The documentation must be in compliance with B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit
Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns.
• If a penalty would apply to a distribution of funds from the account made at the
time of calculation, then the amount of such penalty applicable to a complete
distribution from the account (after costs for the transaction) must be subtracted
to determine the income stream from these assets.
• The borrower must only be considered to have unrestricted access to a 401(k) or
IRA, SEP, Keogh retirement account if the borrower has, as of the time of
calculation, the unqualiﬁed and unlimited right to request a distribution of all funds
in the account (regardless of any possible tax withholding or applicable penalty
applied to such distribution).
• If eligible employment-related assets have been liquidated and placed into a
trust within 12 months of the loan's application date, income must be calculated in
accordance with the requirements in this table.
Ineligible assets are non-employment-related assets (for example, stock options,
non-vested restricted stock, lawsuits, lottery winnings, sale of real estate,
inheritance, and divorce proceeds). Checking and savings accounts are generally
not eligible as employment-related assets, unless the source of the balance in a
checking or savings account was from an eligible employment-related asset (for
example, a severance package or lump sum retirement distribution). Virtual
currency is not an eligible asset.
Documentation
The lender must obtain evidence the assets are liquid and available to the
borrower and must be sourced using one of the following:
• A non-self-employed severance package or non-self-employed lump sum
retirement package (a lump sum distribution) - these funds must be documented
with a distribution letter from the employer (Form 1099-R) and deposited to a
veriﬁed asset account.
• For 401(k) or IRA, SEP, Keogh retirement accounts - the borrower must have
unrestricted access to the funds in the accounts and can only use the accounts if
distribution is not already set up or the distribution amount is not enough to
qualify. The account and its asset composition must be documented with the most
recent monthly, quarterly, or annual statement.
Income History No minimum history is required.
Published June 3, 2026
343
Criteria Requirements
Income
Continuance
Income continuance does not need to be documented since income is calculated
based on loan terms as described below.
Determination of
Qualifying
Income
The lender must divide "Net Documented Assets" by the amortization term of the
loan (in months).
"Net Documented Assets" are equal to the sum of eligible assets minus
• the amount of the penalty that would apply if the account was completely
distributed at the time of calculation; and
• the amount of funds used for down payment, closing costs, and required
reserves.
Example: Calculation of Net Documented Assets
IRA (made up of stocks and mutual funds) $500,000
Minus 10% of $500,000 ($500,000 x .10)
(Assumes a 10% penalty applies for early distribution,
which must be levied against any cash being withdrawn
for closing the transaction as well as the remaining funds
used to calculate the income stream.)
(-) $50,000
Total eligible documented assets $450,000
Minus funds required for closing
(down payment closing costs, reserves) (-) $100,000
Net Documented Assets (=) $350,000
Monthly income calculation 
($350,000/360 (or applicable term of loan in months)) $972.22/month
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Published June 3, 2026
344
B3-3.4-07, Foster-Care Income (03/04/2026)
Income received from a state-or county-sponsored organization for providing temporary care for one or more
children may be considered an acceptable stable income source if the following requirements are met.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain:
• evidence of the payment amount(s) by using letters of veriﬁcation from
the state- or county-sponsored organization(s) providing the income, and
• receipt of income documented for the most recent 12 or 24-months,
based on the income history requirement below, using sources including,
but not limited to:
    ⚬ bank statements,
    ⚬ canceled checks, or
    ⚬ other electronic receipt of payments.
Income History
A two-year history of providing foster-care services is expected, however,
if the borrower has not received this type of income for two full years, the
income may still be counted as stable income if
• the borrower has at least a 12-month history of providing foster-care
services, and
• the income does not represent more than 30% of the total gross income
that is used to qualify for the mortgage loan.
Income Continuance Lenders are not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Determination of
Qualifying Income
Average Income: Depending on the historical trend of the income, the
lender must calculate qualifying income as follows:
• Stable or increasing: Calculate an average income amount using the
most recent 12 or 24 months, based on the income history requirements
above.
• Decreasing: Calculate an average income amount using the most
recent 12 months.
Recent Related Announcements