SECTION: B3-3.4-19
TITLE: Schedule K-1 Income <25% Ownership
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 378-379
---
Published June 3, 2026
360
Criteria Requirements
DU Validation Service
If the borrower's VA beneﬁt income is validated by the DU validation
service, DU will issue a message indicating the required documentation.
This documentation may diﬀer from the requirements described above.
See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
B3-3.4-19, Schedule K-1 Income <25% Ownership (03/04/2026)
The following table provides income requirements for borrowers who have less than 25% ownership of a
partnership, S corporation, or limited liability company (LLC). For borrowers who have more than 25%
ownership, lenders must follow the veriﬁcation of income requirements for self-employed borrowers. See
B3-3.5-01, Underwriting Factors and Documentation for a Self-Employed Borrower for additional information.
Criteria Requirements
Documentation
The lender must obtain the most recent two years of
• signed personal federal income tax returns, and
• IRS Schedule K-1.
When only rental income is reported on Schedule K-1, the lender must
obtain
• one year of signed individual federal income tax returns, and
• IRS Schedule K-1.
Income History A minimum two-year history is required.
Income Continuance The lender is not required to verify continuance unless they have reason to
believe the income may not continue.
Published June 3, 2026
361
Criteria Requirements
Determination of
Qualifying Income
• Income reported on Schedule K-1 can only be considered if the lender
obtains documentation verifying:
    ⚬ the income was actually distributed to the borrower and is consistent
with the level of business income being used to qualify, or
    ⚬ the business has adequate liquidity to support the withdrawal of
earnings. The lender may use discretion in the method used to conﬁrm the
business has adequate liquidity.
• The lender is not required to analyze the viability of the business in
accordance with self-employment requirements and may only use the
borrower's proportionate share of earning reﬂected on Schedule K-1 when
calculating the borrower's income.
• If the borrower has a two-year history of receiving "guaranteed payments
to the partner" from a partnership or an LLC, these payments can be added
to the borrower's cash ﬂow.
Note: An exception to the two-year requirements of receiving "guaranteed
payments to the partner" is if a borrower has recently acquired nominal
ownership in a professional services partnership (for example, a medical
practice or law ﬁrm) after having an established employment history with
the partnership. In this situation, the lender may rely on the borrower's
guaranteed compensation. This must be evidenced by the borrower's
partnership agreement and further supported by evidence of current year-
to-date income.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02 March 04, 2026
Section B3-3.5, Self-Employment Income