SECTION: B3-3.1-01
TITLE: General Income Information
EFFECTIVE: 03/04/2026
PAGES: 318-320
---
Published June 3, 2026
300
This chapter describes the requirements for evaluating income stability, adequacy, and likelihood of
continuance — key factors used in qualifying the borrower and assessing their capacity to repay the mortgage
over the life of the loan.
Section B3-3.1, General Income Requirements
B3-3.1-01, General Income Information (03/04/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains general information for income, including:
Stable and Predictable Income
Continuance of Income
Veriﬁcation of Income for Non-U.S. Citizen Borrowers
Non-Occupant Borrower Income
Nontaxable Income
Income Paid in Virtual Currency
Reduced Income Documentation Requirements for High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
DU Documentation Requirements
Stable and Predictable Income
A stable and predictable ﬂow of income is a foundational element in loan underwriting. The lender must
document income is stable, has a documented history of receipt, and is reasonably expected to continue.
Continuance of Income
Borrowers must be qualiﬁed with income the lender can reasonably expect to continue for the foreseeable
future. The lender must evaluate the likelihood of continuance based on the nature of the income and
supporting documentation.
If the income does not have a deﬁned expiration date and the applicable history of receipt of the income
is documented (per the speciﬁc income type), the lender may conclude that the income is likely to
continue and the lender is not expected to obtain additional documentation, unless there is information
to the contrary.
If the income source does have a deﬁned expiration date or is dependent on the depletion of an asset
account or other limited beneﬁt, the lender must document that the income is expected to continue for at
Published June 3, 2026
301
least three years from the note date. Additionally, when an asset account is the sole or majority source of
qualifying income, the lender must assess the borrower’s ability to continue repaying the loan once the
income source expires or the asset is depleted prior to loan maturity.
If the lender is notiﬁed that the borrower is transitioning to a lower pay structure, for example due to
pending retirement or a new job, the lender must use the lower income amount in qualifying, and must
determine that the lower amount is stable and predictable.
See Chapter B3-3, Income Assessment for topics with additional information and requirements for continuance
of income. 
Veriﬁcation of Income for Non-U.S. Citizen Borrowers
Borrowers who are not U.S. citizens must meet the same employment and income veriﬁcation requirements
that are required for borrowers who are U.S. citizens, regardless of the type or source of income. For information
on a borrower earning foreign income, See B3-3.2-02, Standards for Employment-Related Income.For non-U.S.
citizen borrower eligibility, see B2-2-02, Non–U.S. Citizen Borrower Eligibility Requirements.
Non-Occupant Borrower Income
Income from a non-occupant borrower may be considered in qualifying for both DU and manually underwritten
loans provided the income meets the same standards as required for occupying borrowers.  For information
about restrictions to the down payment, DTI, maximum LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV  that apply to loans with a non-
occupant borrower, see B2-2-04, Guarantors, Co-Signers, or Non-Occupant Borrowers on the Subject
Transaction.
For manually underwritten loans, this income can oﬀset certain weaknesses that may be in the occupant
borrower’s loan application, such as limited income, ﬁnancial reserves, or limited credit history. However, it may
not be used to oﬀset signiﬁcant or recent instances of major derogatory credit in the occupant borrower’s credit
history. The occupant borrower must still reasonably demonstrate a willingness to make the mortgage
payments and maintain homeownership.
Nontaxable Income
The lender should give special consideration to sources of income that may be nontaxable. The lender must
verify that the particular source of income is nontaxable, using documentation such as award letters, policy
agreements, account statements, tax returns or any other documents that address the nontaxable status of the
income. Any exceptions to the required documentation can be found within the details of each speciﬁc income
type. 
If the income is veriﬁed to be nontaxable, and the income and its tax-exempt status are likely to continue, the
lender should develop an “adjusted gross income” for the borrower by adding an amount equivalent to 25% of
the nontaxable income to the borrower’s income.
If the actual amount of federal and state taxes that would generally be paid by a wage earner in a similar tax
bracket is more than 25% of the borrower’s nontaxable income, the lender may use that amount to develop the
adjusted gross income, which should be used in calculating the borrower’s qualifying ratio.
Published June 3, 2026
302
Income Paid in Virtual Currency
Any income paid to or earned by the borrower in the form of virtual currency, such as cryptocurrencies, is not
eligible to be used to qualify for the loan.
Reduced Income Documentation Requirements for High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
For certain high LTV reﬁnance loans, the lender is not required to follow the income documentation
requirements described in this Chapter. Additionally, DU oﬀers a reduced level of income documentation for
High LTV Reﬁnance loans. See Chapter B5-7, High Loan-to-Value Reﬁnance Option for speciﬁc requirements.
DU Documentation Requirements
DU indicates the minimum income veriﬁcation documentation required to process a loan application. This level
of documentation may not be adequate for every borrower and every situation. The lender must determine
whether additional documentation is warranted. If the lender is unable to determine the stability of the
borrower’s income on the basis of the available documentation, the income must be removed and the loan
resubmitted to DU.  
When employment or income is validated by the DU validation service, DU will issue a message indicating the
required documentation. This documentation requirement may diﬀer from those described below. See B3-2-02,
DU Validation Service for more information.
Refer to DU Job Aids for information regarding data entry to DU.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-02  March 04, 2026 
B3-3.1-02, Tax Return and Transcript Documentation Requirements
(06/03/2026)
Introduction
Tax returns and transcripts can be used to calculate and verify certain types of borrower income. This topic
contains the requirements for use of tax return information including:
Federal Income Tax Return Standards