SECTION: B3-4.3-03
TITLE: Retirement Accounts
EFFECTIVE: 06/30/2015
PAGES: 441-442
---
Published June 3, 2026
423
This topic contains information on trust accounts.
Trust Accounts
Trust Accounts
Funds disbursed from a borrower’s trust account are an acceptable source for the down payment, closing costs,
and reserves provided the borrower has immediate access to the funds.
To document trust account funds, the lender must:
obtain written documentation of the value of the trust account from either the trust manager or the
trustee, and
document the conditions under which the borrower has access to the funds and the eﬀect, if any, that the
withdrawal of funds will have on trust income used in qualifying the borrower for the mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-03, Retirement Accounts (06/30/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on retirement accounts.
Retirement Accounts
Retirement Accounts
Vested funds from individual retirement accounts (IRA/SEP/Keogh accounts) and tax-favored retirement savings
accounts (401(k) accounts) are acceptable sources of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and reserves.
The lender must verify the ownership of the account and conﬁrm that the account is vested and allows
withdrawals regardless of current employment status.
If the retirement assets are in the form of stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, the account must meet the
requirements of B3-4.3-01, Stocks, Stock Options, Bonds, and Mutual Funds, for determining value and whether
documentation of the borrower’s actual receipt of funds is required when used for the down payment and
closing costs. When funds from retirement accounts are used for reserves, Fannie Mae does not require the
funds to be withdrawn from the account(s).
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
424
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts (02/04/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on personal gifts, including:
Gift Funds
Acceptable Donors
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
Documentation Requirements
Verifying Donor Availability of Funds and Transfer of Gift Funds
Gift Funds
A borrower of a mortgage loan secured by a principal residence or second home may use funds received as a
personal gift from an acceptable donor. Gift funds may fund all or part of the down payment, closing costs, or
ﬁnancial reserves subject to the minimum borrower contribution requirements below. Gifts are not allowed on
an investment property.
Note: A gift of equity may not be used for ﬁnancial reserves. For additional information, see B3-4.3-05,
Gifts of Equity.
Acceptable Donors
A gift can be provided by:
a relative, deﬁned as the borrower’s spouse, child, or other dependent, or by any other individual who is
related to the borrower by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship; or
a non-relative that shares a familial relationship with the borrower deﬁned as a domestic partner (or
relative of the domestic partner), individual engaged to marry the borrower, former relative, or an
individual with a long-standing familial-like or mentorship relationship with the borrower.
The donor may not be, or have any aﬃliation with, the builder, the developer, the real estate agent, or any
other interested party to the transaction.
Note: Gift funds from the seller who is also an acceptable donor and not aﬃliated with any other
interested party to the transaction are allowed. The donor of a gift of equity is not considered an
interested party to the transaction.
See  B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions, for information about donations from entities (grants).