SECTION: B3-4.3-11
TITLE: Trade Equity
EFFECTIVE: 12/16/2020
PAGES: 454-456
---
Published June 3, 2026
436
Sales Price
Established?
Net Proceeds Calculation
Yes Sales Price – (Sales Costs + All Liens) = Estimated Proceeds
No
90% of Listing Price – All Liens = Estimated Proceeds
Note: The 10% adjustment factor that is applied to the listing price must be
changed depending on market conditions.
Sales Proceeds Needed for Down Payment and Closing Costs
If the proceeds from the sale of a currently owned home are needed for the down payment and closing costs on
the new house, the lender must verify the source of funds by obtaining a copy of the settlement statement on
the existing home before, or simultaneously with, the settlement on the new home, showing suﬃcient net cash
proceeds to consummate the purchase of the new home.
Like-Kind Exchanges
Assets for the down payment from a “like-kind exchange,” also known as a 1031 exchange, are eligible if
properly documented and in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 1031.
Employee Relocation
When the borrower’s employer assumes responsibility for paying oﬀ the existing mortgage in connection with a
relocation plan, the lender must obtain a copy of the executed buy-out agreement to document the source of
funds. A photocopy of a sales contract or a listing agreement is not considered an acceptable source of
veriﬁcation of proceeds from the sale.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-11, Trade Equity (12/16/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on trade equity, including:
Trade Equity
Calculating the Equity Contribution
Documentation Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
437
Trade Equity
Trade equity is an acceptable source of funds to supplement the borrower’s minimum borrower contribution
provided the following requirements are met:
The seller’s equity contribution for the traded property must be a true-value consideration supported by a
current appraisal.
The borrower must make the minimum required contribution from their own funds unless:
the LTV or CLTV ratio is less than or equal to 80%; or
the borrower is purchasing a one-unit principal residence and meets the requirements to use gifts,
donated grant funds, or funds received from an employer to pay for some or all of the borrower's
minimum contribution. See B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts; B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions;
and B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance, for additional information.
These requirements apply to all transactions that involve property trades, including those that are evidenced by
two separate contracts that have the buyer and the seller on one contract reversing roles on the second
contract.
Note: Trade equity is entered in the loan application as a credit to the transaction, which will reduce
the borrower’s required funds to close.
Calculating the Equity Contribution
The equity contribution is determined by subtracting the outstanding mortgage balance of the property being
traded, plus any transfer costs, from the lesser of either the property’s appraised value or the trade-in value
agreed to by both parties.
For trade equity requirements for manufactured housing, see Section B5–2–03, Manufactured Housing
Underwriting Requirements.
Documentation Requirements
For real property, the transfer deed must be recorded.
In addition, lenders must obtain the following:
A search of the land records to verify the ownership of the property and to determine whether there are
any existing liens on the property.
Proof of title transfer and satisfaction of any existing mortgage liens for which the borrower was liable.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
438
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
B3-4.3-12, Rent-Related Credits (08/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on diﬀerent types of rent-related credits, including:
Rent Credit with an Option to Purchase
Rent-Back Credit
Rent Credit with an Option to Purchase
Rent credit with an option to purchase is the portion of rental payments (also referred to as lease payments)
paid by the borrower that can be credited towards the down payment or minimum borrower contribution under
a documented rental or purchase agreement. Borrowers are not required to make a minimum borrower
contribution from their own funds for the rental payments to be credited toward the down payment. The rent
credit is not considered an interested party contribution.
The rent credit from the seller for the down payment is determined by calculating the diﬀerence between the
market rent and the actual rent paid by the borrower. The market rent is determined by the appraiser in the
appraisal for the subject property and the credit may be no more than the diﬀerence between the market rent
and the actual rent paid.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must obtain the following documentation:
A copy of the rental/lease with an option to purchase agreement that evidences the following:
an original term of at least 12 months, 
the total number of months of the agreement, 
the monthly rental amount, and 
the amount of the monthly rent credit.
Copies of the borrower's canceled checks, bank statements, money order receipts or other reasonable
methods evidencing the rental payments over the term of the agreement. The documentation must
clearly indicate the payee and the amount being paid.
The appraisal of the subject property reﬂecting the market rent amount.