SECTION: B3-4.3-06
TITLE: Grants and Lender Contributions
EFFECTIVE: 05/07/2025
PAGES: 446-449
---
Published June 3, 2026
428
a signed gift letter (see B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts), and
the settlement statement listing the gift of equity.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
 
B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions (05/07/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on grants and lender contributions, including:
Donations From Entities - Grants
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
Documentation Requirements
Lender-funded Grants
Lender Contributions
Donations From Entities - Grants
Borrowers of a loan secured by a principal residence may use funds donated from acceptable entities for all or
part of the down payment, closing costs, or ﬁnancial reserves subject to the minimum borrower contribution
requirements described below. These funds are referred to as a grant.
Grants must be funded by one of the following entities, provided they are not the property seller or other
interested party in the transaction:
a federal agency, state, county, or similar political subdivision of a state;
any city, town, village, or borough of a state that
has a local government and that has been created by a special legislative act,
has been otherwise individually incorporated or chartered pursuant to state law, or
is recognized as such under the constitution or by the laws of the state in which it is located,
a housing ﬁnance agency as deﬁned in 24 C.F.R. §266.5;
a nonproﬁt organization exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
a regional Federal Home Loan Bank under one of its aﬀordable housing programs;
an employer where the borrower is an employee (see B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance);
Published June 3, 2026
429
an Indian tribe on the most current list published by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 25 U.S.C.
§5131; or
a lender (see Lender-funded Grants).
Down payment assistance may not be funded in any way through the ﬁrst mortgage, such as through premium
pricing.
Grant funds may also be applied towards energy-related improvements if
the program under which the funds are made available allows such a use, and
the minimum borrower contribution requirements are met.
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
The following table describes the minimum borrower contribution requirements for transactions that contain
grants (excluding lender-funded grants).
LTV, CLTV, or
HCLTV Ratio
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirement from Borrower’s Own
Funds
80% or less One- to four-unit principal
residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the
borrower’s own funds is not required. All
funds needed to complete the transaction
can come from a grant.
Greater than 80%
One-unit principal residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the
borrower’s own funds is not required. All
funds needed to complete the transaction
can come from a grant.
Two- to four-unit principal
residence
The borrower must make a 5% minimum
borrower contribution from their own
funds. After the minimum borrower
contribution has been met, grants can be
used to supplement the down payment,
closing costs, reserves, and energy-related
improvements.
Documentation Requirements
The grant must be documented with a copy of the letter awarding the grant to the borrower or a copy of the
legal agreement that speciﬁes the terms and conditions of the grant. The document must include language
indicating that repayment of the grant is not expected, and how the funds will be transferred to the borrower,
Published June 3, 2026
430
lender, or closing agent.
The transfer of grants must be documented with a copy of the donor’s canceled check, a copy of the settlement
statement showing receipt of the check, or similar evidence. The documentation must be included in the
individual loan ﬁle.
Lender-funded Grants
A lender-funded grant is subject to the requirements described in this topic, but must also meet the
requirements in the following table.
✓ Additional Requirements for Lender-funded Grants
 The loan must be a HomeReady loan used for a purchase transaction. See Chapter B5-6,
HomeReady Mortgage for additional information.
 
• One-unit principal residences: The borrower(s) must make a 3% contribution from their own
funds, other eligible sources of funds as described in Chapter B3-4, Asset Assessment, or
through a Community Seconds loan.
• Two- to four-unit principal residences with LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV ratios 80% or less: The
borrower(s) must make a 3% contribution from their own funds, other eligible sources of funds
as described in Chapter B3-4, Asset Assessment, or through a Community Seconds loan.
• Two- to four-unit principal residences with LTV, CLTV, or HCLTV ratios greater than 80%: The
borrower(s) must make a 5% minimum contribution from their own funds.
 The lender must have a documented program that provides grants for low- to moderate-income
borrowers, community development, equitable housing initiatives, or similar initiatives.
Note: When a lender is only providing closing cost assistance, the Lender Contributions policy may be
applied instead of the Lender-funded Grants policy.
Lender Contributions
The lender may provide the borrower with a contribution to fund borrower-paid closing costs and prepaid fees in
the following cases:
The lender credit is derived from premium pricing, as described in Premium Pricing in B2-1.5-02, Loan
Eligibility.
The lender credit is sourced directly from lender funds with no expectation for repayment or ﬁnancial
obligation apart from the subject mortgage. Funds passed to the lender from a third party, for the
purpose of providing a lender credit, are not eligible as a lender contribution.
The amount of the lender contribution should not exceed the amount of borrower-paid closing costs and prepaid
Published June 3, 2026
431
fees and may not be used to fund any portion of the down payment or ﬁnancial reserve requirements. Lender
contributions are not considered grants.
When the lender is an interested party to a purchase transaction, any amount of a lender contribution not
derived from premium pricing, must be considered as an IPC when calculating the maximum ﬁnancing
concessions for eligibility purposes.
Any excess lender credit required to be returned to the borrower in accordance with applicable regulatory
requirements is considered an overpayment of fees and charges and may be applied as a principal curtailment
or returned in cash to the borrower. See  B2-1.3-01, Purchase Transactions and B2-1.3-02, Limited Cash-Out
Reﬁnance Transactions for treatment of the overpayment of fees and charges.
Lenders may also provide borrowers with cash or cash-like incentives that do not need to be reﬂected on the
settlement statement. See  B3-4.1-02, Interested Party Contributions (IPCs) for additional information.
Note: If a lender is required to provide down payment assistance to satisfy a legal settlement or
judgement, enforcement action or other regulatory action, Fannie Mae will consider purchasing those
loans on a negotiated basis. Lenders may contact their Fannie Mae customer account team for more
information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides reference to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-03 May 07, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-07 August 03, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
B3-4.3-07, Disaster Relief Grants or Loans (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on disaster relief grants or loans.