SECTION: B3-4.3-15
TITLE: Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset
EFFECTIVE: 10/30/2009
PAGES: 458-459
---
Published June 3, 2026
440
B3-4.3-14, Bridge/Swing Loans (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on bridge/swing loans.
Bridge/Swing Loans
Bridge/Swing Loans
A bridge (or swing) loan is an acceptable source of funds provided the following requirements are met:
The bridge loan cannot be cross-collateralized against the new property.
The lender must document the borrower’s ability to successfully carry the payments for the new home,
the current home, the bridge loan, and other obligations.
Fannie Mae does not have a speciﬁed limitation on the term of bridge loans. See B3-6-05, Monthly Debt
Obligations, for more information about how to treat the resulting contingent liability.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-15, Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset (10/30/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on borrowed funds secured by an asset, including:
Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset
Secured Loans as Debt
Reducing the Asset by the Amount Borrowed
Documentation Requirements
Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset
Borrowed funds secured by an asset are an acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and
reserves, since borrowed funds secured by an asset represent a return of equity.
Assets that may be used to secure funds include automobiles, artwork, collectibles, real estate, or ﬁnancial
assets, such as savings accounts, certiﬁcates of deposit, stocks, bonds, and 401(k) accounts.
Published June 3, 2026
441
Secured Loans as Debt
When qualifying the borrower, the lender must consider monthly payments for secured loans as a debt.
If a secured loan does not require monthly payments, the lender must calculate an equivalent amount and
consider that amount as a recurring debt.
When loans are secured by the borrower’s ﬁnancial assets, monthly payments for the loan do not have to be
considered as long-term debt.
Reducing the Asset by the Amount Borrowed
If the borrower uses the same ﬁnancial asset as part of their ﬁnancial reserves, the lender must reduce the
value of the asset by the amount of proceeds and related fees for the secured loan.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must document the following:
the terms of the secured loan,
evidence that the party providing the secured loan is not a party to the sale, and
evidence that the funds have been transferred to the borrower.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-16, Credit Card Financing and Reward Points (08/04/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the following:
Credit Card Financing
Credit Card Reward Points
Credit Card Financing
Fannie Mae permits certain costs that must be paid early in the application process, such as lock-in fees,
origination fees, commitment fees, credit report fees, and appraisal fees, to be charged to the borrower’s credit
card because these fees do not represent extraordinary amounts and the credit card debt is considered in the