SECTION: B3-4.2-03
TITLE: Individual Development Accounts
EFFECTIVE: 02/06/2019
PAGES: 435-438
---
Published June 3, 2026
417
Note: If the source of a large deposit is readily identiﬁable on the account statement(s), such as a
direct deposit from an employer (payroll), the Social Security Administration, or IRS or state income
tax refund, or a transfer of funds between veriﬁed accounts, and the source of the deposit is printed
on the statement, the lender does not need to obtain further explanation or documentation. However,
if the source of the deposit is printed on the statement, but the lender still has questions as to whether
the funds may have been borrowed, the lender should obtain additional documentation.
The DU validation service automates the assessment of large deposits. When assets are validated, DU issues a
message indicating which large deposits require documentation. Compliance with the DU messages satisﬁes the
requirement for documenting large deposits. See B3-2-02, DU Validation Service
Request for Veriﬁcation of Deposit
When a Veriﬁcation of Deposit (Form 1006) (VOD) is used and depository activity is not included, the lender
must verify the source of funds for
accounts opened within the last 90 days of the application date, and
account balances that are considerably greater than the average balance reﬂected on the VOD.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
 
B3-4.2-03, Individual Development Accounts (02/06/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on individual development accounts, including:
Individual Development Accounts
Use of IDA Funds to Meet Borrower Minimum Contribution Requirements
Lender Checklist for IDAs
Individual Development Accounts
Published June 3, 2026
418
Some nonproﬁt agencies will match the funds a borrower regularly deposits into a savings account that has
been designated as an account that is used solely for the accumulation of funds to purchase a home. Such
accounts are referred to as individual development accounts, or IDAs.
Nonproﬁt agencies that oﬀer IDA programs have options with respect to accumulating and holding the matching
funds, which include:
the use of a parallel “savings” account that is separate from the homebuyer’s savings account;
separately designated matching funds within a single agency account via accounting processes to
allocate matching funds to a particular homebuyer; and
the use of a trustee account that contains both the homebuyer’s funds and the agency’s matching funds.
When a homebuyer reaches the target amount and is ready to complete the home purchase, the funds are
disbursed from the nonproﬁt agency account to the closing agent via a single check or multiple checks.
If the agency’s matching funds are held in an account that is separate from the homebuyer’s account, the
matching funds need not be commingled with the homebuyer’s funds prior to disbursement to the closing
agent. It is acceptable to allow the separate disbursement of funds from the agency and from the homebuyer,
as long as the terms of the IDA program are met.
Funds that the borrower deposited into an IDA may be used for either closing costs or the down payment.
Use of IDA Funds to Meet Borrower Minimum Contribution Requirements
Funds that the borrower deposited into an IDA may be used for either the closing costs or the down payment.
Depending on the repayment terms of the IDA program, the borrower may or may not be required to meet the
minimum down payment requirements from their own funds, as outlined below:
Published June 3, 2026
419
IDA Repayment Terms Allowable Use of Matching Funds
The nonproﬁt agency
• requires repayment of the matching funds,
• agrees to defer or forgive repayment provided
that certain conditions are met, or
• ﬁles a lien against the property.
The borrower may use the matching funds to
supplement the down payment provided they have
met the minimum borrower contribution
requirements.
The minimum borrower contribution must come from
the borrower's own funds unless:
• the LTV or CLTV ratio is less than or equal to 80%;
or
• the borrower is purchasing a one-unit principal
residence and meets the requirements to use gifts,
donated grant funds, or funds received from an
employer to pay for some or all of the borrower's
minimum contributions. See B3-4.3-04, Personal Gifts;
B3-4.3-06, Grants and Lender Contributions; and
B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance, for additional
information.
The nonproﬁt agency
• does not require repayment of the matching
funds and
• does not ﬁle a lien against the property.
The borrower may use the matching funds for some
or all of the down payment without ﬁrst being
required to meet the minimum borrower contribution
requirement from their own funds.
Lender Checklist for IDAs
The lender must ensure that all of the following requirements for an IDA are satisﬁed:
✓ Lender Checklist for IDAs
 Document how the nonproﬁt agency’s IDA program operates.
 Verify the rate at which the agency matches borrower deposits into the account.
 Determine that the borrower satisﬁed the program’s vesting requirements.
 Document the borrower’s regular payments into the account and the agency’s regular
deposits of matching funds into the account.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
420
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
B3-4.2-04, Pooled Savings (Community Savings Funds) (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on pooled savings (community savings funds).
Pooled Savings (Community Savings Funds)
Pooled Savings (Community Savings Funds)
Funds from a community savings account or any other type of pooled savings may be used for the down
payment if the borrower can document regular contributions to the fund.
Acceptable documentation includes written conﬁrmation from the party managing the pooled savings fund and
documentation of regular borrower contributions.
The borrower’s obligation to continue making contributions to the fund must be considered as part of the
borrower’s debt when calculating the total debt-to-income ratio.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.2-05, Foreign Assets (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the use of assets that are located outside the United States and its territories.
Requirements for Foreign Assets