SECTION: B3-4.3-10
TITLE: Anticipated Sales Proceeds
EFFECTIVE: 02/23/2016
PAGES: 453-454
---
Published June 3, 2026
435
and deposits that exceed the amount customary for the area should be closely evaluated.
Documentation for Receipt of the Deposit
Receipt of the deposit must be veriﬁed by either a copy of the borrower’s canceled check or a written statement
from the holder of the deposit.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
 
B3-4.3-10, Anticipated Sales Proceeds (02/23/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on anticipated sales proceeds, including:
Anticipated Sales Proceeds
Determining the Amount of Net Proceeds
Sales Proceeds Needed for Down Payment and Closing Costs
Like-Kind Exchanges
Employee Relocation
Anticipated Sales Proceeds
If the borrower’s currently owned home is listed for sale but has not been sold, the lender may qualify the
borrower on the basis of anticipated sales proceeds.
The lender must document the actual proceeds received by the borrower.
Determining the Amount of Net Proceeds
The following table describes how to determine the amount of net proceeds based on a borrower’s anticipated
equity.
Published June 3, 2026
436
Sales Price
Established?
Net Proceeds Calculation
Yes Sales Price – (Sales Costs + All Liens) = Estimated Proceeds
No
90% of Listing Price – All Liens = Estimated Proceeds
Note: The 10% adjustment factor that is applied to the listing price must be
changed depending on market conditions.
Sales Proceeds Needed for Down Payment and Closing Costs
If the proceeds from the sale of a currently owned home are needed for the down payment and closing costs on
the new house, the lender must verify the source of funds by obtaining a copy of the settlement statement on
the existing home before, or simultaneously with, the settlement on the new home, showing suﬃcient net cash
proceeds to consummate the purchase of the new home.
Like-Kind Exchanges
Assets for the down payment from a “like-kind exchange,” also known as a 1031 exchange, are eligible if
properly documented and in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 1031.
Employee Relocation
When the borrower’s employer assumes responsibility for paying oﬀ the existing mortgage in connection with a
relocation plan, the lender must obtain a copy of the executed buy-out agreement to document the source of
funds. A photocopy of a sales contract or a listing agreement is not considered an acceptable source of
veriﬁcation of proceeds from the sale.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-11, Trade Equity (12/16/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on trade equity, including:
Trade Equity
Calculating the Equity Contribution
Documentation Requirements