SECTION: B3-4.3-08
TITLE: Employer Assistance
EFFECTIVE: 09/29/2015
PAGES: 450-452
---
Published June 3, 2026
432
Disaster Relief Grant or Loan
Disaster Relief Grant or Loan
Borrowers may use lump-sum disaster relief grants or loans to satisfy Fannie Mae’s minimum borrower
contribution requirement. No borrower contribution is required.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance (09/29/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on employer assistance, including:
Forms of Employer Assistance
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
Documentation Requirements
Forms of Employer Assistance
The employer assistance may be in the form of:
a grant,
a direct, fully repayable second mortgage or unsecured loan,
a forgivable second mortgage or unsecured loan, or
a deferred-payment second mortgage or unsecured loan.
A borrower of a mortgage loan secured by a principal residence may use funds provided by an employer to fund
all or part of the down payment or closing costs subject to the minimum borrower contribution requirements
below. Employer assistance can also be used for ﬁnancial reserves for all types of assistance with the exception
of unsecured loans (which may only be used for the down payment and closing costs). Employer assistance
funds are not allowed on a second home or an investment property.
Funds must come directly from the employer, including through an employer-aﬃliated credit union.
When employer assistance is extended as a secured second mortgage, the transaction may be structured as a
Community Seconds (see B5-5.1-02, Community Seconds Loan Eligibility) or it must satisfy Fannie Mae's
eligibility criteria for mortgages that are subject to subordinate ﬁnancing (see B2-1.2-04, Subordinate
Financing).
Published June 3, 2026
433
If the secured second mortgage or unsecured loan does not require regular payments of either principal and
interest or interest only, the lender does not need to calculate an equivalent payment for consideration as part
of the borrower’s monthly debt. If regular payments are required for the secured second mortgage, the
payments must be included in the calculation of the debt-to-income ratio.
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
The following table describes the minimum borrower contribution requirements for transactions that contain
employer assistance.
LTV, CLTV, or
HCLTV Ratio
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirement from Borrower’s Own Funds
80% or less One- to four-unit principal
residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the
borrower’s own funds is not required. All
funds needed to complete the transaction
can come from employer assistance.
Greater than 80%
One-unit principal residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the
borrower’s own funds is not required. All
funds needed to complete the transaction
can come from employer assistance.
Two- to four-unit principal
residence
The borrower must make a 5% minimum
borrower contribution from their own funds.
After the minimum borrower contribution has
been met, employer assistance can be used
to supplement the down payment, closing
costs, and reserves (except for unsecured
loans, which may not be applied to reserves).
See B5-6-02, HomeReady Mortgage
Underwriting Methods and Requirements, for
HomeReady mortgage minimum borrower
contribution and down payment
requirements.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must document:
that the program is an established company program, not just an accommodation developed for an
individual employee.
Published June 3, 2026
434
the dollar amount of the employer’s assistance.
an unsecured loan from an employer with an award letter or legal agreement from the note holder and
must disclose the terms and conditions of the loan.
the terms of any other employee assistance being oﬀered to the borrower (such as relocation beneﬁts or
gifts).
that the borrower received the employer assistance funds directly from the employer (or through the
employer-aﬃliated credit union).
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-09, Earnest Money Deposit (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the earnest money deposit, including:
Sales Contract Deposit
Veriﬁcation of Source of Funds
Documentation for Receipt of the Deposit
Sales Contract Deposit
The deposit on the sales contract (earnest money) for the purchase of the security property is an acceptable
source of funds for both the down payment and the closing costs. See  B3-4.1-04, Virtual Currency for additional
information.
Veriﬁcation of Source of Funds
If the deposit is being used as part of the borrower’s minimum contribution requirement, the lender must verify
that the funds are from an acceptable source. See  B3-4.2-01, Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets.
A Request for Veriﬁcation of Deposit (Form 1006) must indicate that the average balance for the past two
months was large enough to support the amount of the deposit.
Bank statements must evidence that the average balance for the past two months was large enough to support
the amount of the deposit. If a copy of the canceled deposit check is used to document the source of funds, the
bank statements must cover the period up to (and including) the date the check cleared the bank account.
If it cannot be determined that these funds were withdrawn from the borrower’s account, additional veriﬁcation
of the source and evidence that the funds have actually changed hands from the borrower to the seller, the real
estate agent, the escrow agent, or the settlement attorney should be provided. Large earnest money deposits