SECTION: B3-4.3-20
TITLE: Anticipated Savings and Cash-on-Hand
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2009
PAGES: 463-464
---
Published June 3, 2026
445
Net proceeds from a loan against the cash value or from the surrender of a life insurance policy are an
acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and reserves.
The lender must assess repayment or additional obligation considerations to determine the impact on borrower
qualiﬁcation or reserves.
If penalties for failure to repay the loan are limited to the surrender of the policy, payments on a loan secured
by the cash value of a borrower’s life insurance policy do not have to be considered in the total debt-to-income
ratio.
If additional obligations are indicated, the obligation amount must be factored into the total debt-to-income
ratio, or subtracted from the borrower’s ﬁnancial reserves.
Documenting Borrower Receipt of Funds
If the funds are needed for the down payment or closing costs, lenders must document the borrower’s receipt of
the funds from the insurance company by obtaining either a copy of the check from the insurer or a copy of the
payout statement issued by the insurer. If the cash-value of the life insurance is being used for reserves, the
cash-value must be documented but does not need to be liquidated and received by the borrower.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-20, Anticipated Savings and Cash-on-Hand (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on:
Anticipated Savings
Cash-on-Hand
Anticipated Savings
The lender may preliminarily qualify a borrower on the basis that anticipated savings will be suﬃcient to meet
the funds needed for closing. The lender must verify that savings are actually accumulated by the borrower
before loan closing.
The estimate for a borrower’s anticipated savings must be realistically developed. To calculate potential saved
funds, the lender should reduce the borrower’s expected after-tax income for the expected savings period by
existing housing expenses, monthly debt expenses based on data from the credit report, and expected living
expenses, such as food, transportation, etc.
Published June 3, 2026
446
Cash-on-Hand
Cash-on-hand is not an acceptable source of funds for the down payment or closing costs.
For HomeReady mortgages, cash-on-hand may be considered an acceptable source of funds for the down
payment and closing cost. See Chapter B5–6, HomeReady Mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-21, Borrower's Earned Real Estate Commission (04/05/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the use of borrower's earned real estate commission as eligible funds for the
subject transaction, including:
Earned Real Estate Commission
Documentation Requirements
Earned Real Estate Commission
Earned real estate commission refers to the borrower's portion of a real estate commission earned from the sale
of the subject property being purchased when the borrower is acting as their own real estate agent. Lenders
may use the borrower's earned real estate commission as an eligible source of funds for down payment and
closing costs provided the borrower is a licensed real estate agent and will receive a sales commission from the
purchase of the subject property.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must document the following:
the settlement statement must reﬂect the commission earned by the borrower, and
the earned commission amount must be credited towards the mortgage loan.
Note: For DU loan caseﬁles, earned real estate commission must be entered as a Credit Type of
"Other" in Section 2b of the online loan application.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.