SECTION: B3-4.3-02
TITLE: Trust Accounts
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2009
PAGES: 440-441
---
Published June 3, 2026
422
borrower’s ownership of the account or asset. The value of the asset and any related documentation must meet
the requirements outlined in the table below.
Asset Type Determining the Value of the Asset
Stocks and mutual funds
The lender must determine the value of the asset (net of any margin
accounts) by obtaining either
• the most recent monthly or quarterly statement from the depository or
investment ﬁrm; or
• a copy of the stock certiﬁcate, accompanied by a newspaper stock list
that is dated as of or near the date of the loan application.
Stock options
The value of vested stock options can be documented by
• a statement that lists the number of options and the option price, and
• using the current stock price to determine the gain that would be realized
from exercise of an option and the sale of the optioned stock.
Note: Non-vested stock options are not an acceptable source of funds for
the down payment, closing costs, or reserves and should not be entered on
the loan application.
Government bonds The value of government bonds must be based on their purchase price
unless the redemption value can be documented.
When used for the down payment or closing costs, if the value of the asset (as determined above) is at least
20% more than the amount of funds needed for the down payment and closing costs, no documentation of the
borrower’s actual receipt of funds realized from the sale or liquidation is required. Otherwise, evidence of the
borrower’s actual receipt of funds realized from the sale or liquidation must be documented.
When used for reserves, 100% of the value of the assets (as determined above) may be considered, and
liquidation is not required.
Refer to B3-4.3-03, Retirement Accounts, for the requirements pertaining to the use of retirement accounts for
the down payment, closing costs, or reserves.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-02, Trust Accounts (04/01/2009)
Introduction
Published June 3, 2026
423
This topic contains information on trust accounts.
Trust Accounts
Trust Accounts
Funds disbursed from a borrower’s trust account are an acceptable source for the down payment, closing costs,
and reserves provided the borrower has immediate access to the funds.
To document trust account funds, the lender must:
obtain written documentation of the value of the trust account from either the trust manager or the
trustee, and
document the conditions under which the borrower has access to the funds and the eﬀect, if any, that the
withdrawal of funds will have on trust income used in qualifying the borrower for the mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-03, Retirement Accounts (06/30/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on retirement accounts.
Retirement Accounts
Retirement Accounts
Vested funds from individual retirement accounts (IRA/SEP/Keogh accounts) and tax-favored retirement savings
accounts (401(k) accounts) are acceptable sources of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and reserves.
The lender must verify the ownership of the account and conﬁrm that the account is vested and allows
withdrawals regardless of current employment status.
If the retirement assets are in the form of stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, the account must meet the
requirements of B3-4.3-01, Stocks, Stock Options, Bonds, and Mutual Funds, for determining value and whether
documentation of the borrower’s actual receipt of funds is required when used for the down payment and
closing costs. When funds from retirement accounts are used for reserves, Fannie Mae does not require the
funds to be withdrawn from the account(s).
Recent Related Announcements