SECTION: B3-4.3-21
TITLE: Borrower's Earned Real Estate Commission
EFFECTIVE: 04/05/2023
PAGES: 464-465
---
Published June 3, 2026
446
Cash-on-Hand
Cash-on-hand is not an acceptable source of funds for the down payment or closing costs.
For HomeReady mortgages, cash-on-hand may be considered an acceptable source of funds for the down
payment and closing cost. See Chapter B5–6, HomeReady Mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-21, Borrower's Earned Real Estate Commission (04/05/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the use of borrower's earned real estate commission as eligible funds for the
subject transaction, including:
Earned Real Estate Commission
Documentation Requirements
Earned Real Estate Commission
Earned real estate commission refers to the borrower's portion of a real estate commission earned from the sale
of the subject property being purchased when the borrower is acting as their own real estate agent. Lenders
may use the borrower's earned real estate commission as an eligible source of funds for down payment and
closing costs provided the borrower is a licensed real estate agent and will receive a sales commission from the
purchase of the subject property.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must document the following:
the settlement statement must reﬂect the commission earned by the borrower, and
the earned commission amount must be credited towards the mortgage loan.
Note: For DU loan caseﬁles, earned real estate commission must be entered as a Credit Type of
"Other" in Section 2b of the online loan application.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
447
Announcements Issue Dates
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
 
Section B3-4.4, DU Requirements for Asset Assessment
B3-4.4-01, DU Asset Veriﬁcation (12/16/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on asset veriﬁcation for loans underwritten with DU, including:
Liquid Assets
Non-Liquid Assets
Reserve Requirements
Asset Values in the DU Underwriting Findings Report
Non-Occupant Borrower Asset Requirements
Liquid Assets
DU analyzes the value of liquid assets entered in the loan application in its risk assessment. Assets may be
excluded from the loan application if the borrower can qualify without them.
DU considers the following assets liquid assets: Bonds, Bridge Loan Proceeds, Cash-on-Hand (for certain
HomeReady loans only), Cash Value of Life Insurance, Certiﬁcate of Deposit, Checking, Gift (not deposited), Gift
of Equity, Grant (not deposited), Individual Development Account, Money Market, Mutual Fund, Net Equity,
Other Liquid Asset, Proceeds from Real Estate Property to be sold on or before closing, Proceeds from Sale of
Non-Real Estate Asset, Retirement, Savings, Secured Borrowed Funds, Stocks, Stock Options (vested), and Trust
Account.
Note: Some of these asset types may not be available in the lender’s loan origination system.
Non-Liquid Assets
DU does not consider the amount of non-liquid assets. Non-liquid assets do not have to be veriﬁed, and will not