SECTION: B3-4.3-16
TITLE: Credit Card Financing and Reward Points
EFFECTIVE: 08/04/2021
PAGES: 459-461
---
Published June 3, 2026
441
Secured Loans as Debt
When qualifying the borrower, the lender must consider monthly payments for secured loans as a debt.
If a secured loan does not require monthly payments, the lender must calculate an equivalent amount and
consider that amount as a recurring debt.
When loans are secured by the borrower’s ﬁnancial assets, monthly payments for the loan do not have to be
considered as long-term debt.
Reducing the Asset by the Amount Borrowed
If the borrower uses the same ﬁnancial asset as part of their ﬁnancial reserves, the lender must reduce the
value of the asset by the amount of proceeds and related fees for the secured loan.
Documentation Requirements
The lender must document the following:
the terms of the secured loan,
evidence that the party providing the secured loan is not a party to the sale, and
evidence that the funds have been transferred to the borrower.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-16, Credit Card Financing and Reward Points (08/04/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the following:
Credit Card Financing
Credit Card Reward Points
Credit Card Financing
Fannie Mae permits certain costs that must be paid early in the application process, such as lock-in fees,
origination fees, commitment fees, credit report fees, and appraisal fees, to be charged to the borrower’s credit
card because these fees do not represent extraordinary amounts and the credit card debt is considered in the
Published June 3, 2026
442
borrower’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio. Borrowers are not required to pay oﬀ these credit card changes
before closing. Under no circumstances may credit card ﬁnancing be used for the down payment.
Lenders may allow credit card ﬁnancing for the payment of common and customary fees paid outside of closing
up to a maximum of 2% of the loan amount if the lender:
conﬁrms that the borrower has suﬃcient liquid funds (ﬁnancial reserves) to cover these charges (in
addition to funds needed for other closing costs and the down payment that they will be paying); or
recalculates the credit card payment, per B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations, to account for the new
charges and includes the updated payment in the qualifying ratio calculation.
For DU, lenders must apply this policy manually. The fees charged to the borrower’s credit card must be
included as a closing cost in the loan application, and removed from any Borrower Paid Fees entered as an other
credit for the fees paid outside of closing. Alternatively, the monthly credit card payment in the liabilities section
of the loan application must be increased to include the charges if not reﬂected in the credit report.
Credit Card Reward Points
Fannie Mae permits credit card reward points as acceptable funds for use towards closing costs,
down payment and ﬁnancial reserves, provided the reward points are converted to cash prior to
the closing of the loan. The following requirements apply:
If the credit card reward points are converted to cash and deposited into the borrower’s
depository account (for example, checking or savings), no additional documentation is
required unless the deposit is considered a large deposit.  In this event, the lender must
follow the requirements in Evaluating Large Deposits in B3-4.2-02, Depository Accounts . 
If the credit card reward points are converted to cash, but not deposited into a borrower’s
depository account, the lender must provide evidence the reward points were
available to the borrower prior to the conversion, including veriﬁcation of the
cash value (for example, credit card reward statement prior to conversion); and
converted to cash prior to the closing of the loan.
For DU loan caseﬁles, if the reward points are not already converted to cash and deposited into a
depository account, lenders must enter the cash value of the reward points as an Asset with an
Account Type of "Other" and a description of "Liquid Asset". See  B3-4.4-02, Requirements for Certain
Assets in DU  for more information.
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-07 August 04, 2021
Published June 3, 2026
443
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
B3-4.3-17, Personal Unsecured Loans (09/20/2010)
Introduction
This topic contains information on personal unsecured loans.
Personal Unsecured Loans
Personal Unsecured Loans
Personal unsecured loans are not an acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing costs, or
ﬁnancial reserves.
Examples of personal unsecured loans include signature loans, lines of credit on credit cards, and overdraft
protection on checking accounts.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-18, Sale of Personal Assets (12/16/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the sale of personal assets, including:
Sale of Personal Assets
Documentation Requirements
Sale of Personal Assets
Proceeds from the sale of personal assets are an acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing