SECTION: B3-4.3-13
TITLE: Sweat Equity
EFFECTIVE: 04/15/2014
PAGES: 457-458
---
Published June 3, 2026
439
Rent-Back Credit
A rent-back credit is an amount paid by the property seller to the borrower in exchange for allowing the seller to
stay in the home for a speciﬁed period of time after closing. While rent-back credit to the borrower paid by the
seller is permissible as part of the sale; it cannot be used as an eligible source of funds for closing costs, down
payment, or reserves when qualifying the borrower.
A rent-back credit may appear on the Closing Disclosure as a credit to the borrower. In all cases, the lender
must underwrite the loan without any consideration of the rent-back credit (e.g., it must not be entered in the
DU loan application data) and must document that the borrower has suﬃcient funds for the transaction from
eligible sources.
Note: For loans secured by the borrower's principal residence, the borrower must continue to meet
any occupancy requirements as outlined in the security instrument.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-05 August 07, 2024
B3-4.3-13, Sweat Equity (04/15/2014)
Introduction
This topic contains information on sweat equity.
Sweat Equity
Sweat Equity
Generally, sweat equity is not an acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and reserves,
since it is diﬃcult to accurately assess the contributory value of sweat equity work. Only for speciﬁc
transactions and if all eligibility requirements are met does Fannie Mae consider sweat equity to be an
acceptable source of funds.
For further detail on the speciﬁc transactions and the eligibility requirements to be met, see Chapter B5–6,
HomeReady Mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
440
B3-4.3-14, Bridge/Swing Loans (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on bridge/swing loans.
Bridge/Swing Loans
Bridge/Swing Loans
A bridge (or swing) loan is an acceptable source of funds provided the following requirements are met:
The bridge loan cannot be cross-collateralized against the new property.
The lender must document the borrower’s ability to successfully carry the payments for the new home,
the current home, the bridge loan, and other obligations.
Fannie Mae does not have a speciﬁed limitation on the term of bridge loans. See B3-6-05, Monthly Debt
Obligations, for more information about how to treat the resulting contingent liability.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-4.3-15, Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset (10/30/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on borrowed funds secured by an asset, including:
Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset
Secured Loans as Debt
Reducing the Asset by the Amount Borrowed
Documentation Requirements
Borrowed Funds Secured by an Asset
Borrowed funds secured by an asset are an acceptable source of funds for the down payment, closing costs, and
reserves, since borrowed funds secured by an asset represent a return of equity.
Assets that may be used to secure funds include automobiles, artwork, collectibles, real estate, or ﬁnancial
assets, such as savings accounts, certiﬁcates of deposit, stocks, bonds, and 401(k) accounts.