SECTION: B3-4.2-01
TITLE: Verification of Deposits and Assets
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 430-432
---
Published June 3, 2026
412
Announcements Issue Dates
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
 
Section B3-4.2, Veriﬁcation of Depository Assets
B3-4.2-01, Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on verifying deposits and assets, including:
Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets
Asset Documentation Provided by a Third-Party Asset Veriﬁcation Vendor
Blanket Authorization Form
Veriﬁcation of Deposits and Assets
The lender can use any of the following types of documentation to verify that a borrower has suﬃcient funds for
closing, down payment, and/or ﬁnancial reserves:
Request for Veriﬁcation of Deposit (Form 1006). The information must be requested directly from the
depository institution, and the complete, signed, and dated document must be sent directly from the
depository institution.
Copies of bank statements or investment portfolio statements. All statements must:
clearly identify the ﬁnancial institution,
clearly identify the borrower as the account holder,
include at least the last four digits of the account number,
include the time period covered by the statement,
include all deposits and withdrawal transactions (for depository accounts),
include all purchase and sale transactions (for ﬁnancial portfolio accounts), and
include the ending account balance.
Published June 3, 2026
413
If the lender is the holder of the borrower's account, the lender may produce a printout or other
alternative veriﬁcation of the asset(s) directly from its system. The printout or alternative veriﬁcation is
acceptable as long as all required data (above) is supplied and documented.
Copies of retirement account statements. They must be the most recent statements, and they must
identify the borrower’s vested amount and the terms. (See B3-4.3-03, Retirement Accounts, for additional
information.)
The number of required bank or investment portfolio statements varies per transaction type as shown in the
following table.
Documentation Requirements
Purchase transactions
The statements must cover the most recent full two-month period of account
activity (60 days, or, if account information is reported on a quarterly basis, the
most recent quarter).
Reﬁnance transactions
The statements must cover the most recent full one-month period of account
activity (30 days, or, if account information is reported on a quarterly basis, the
most recent quarter).
If the latest bank statement is more than 45 days earlier than the date of the loan application, the lender should
ask the borrower to provide a more recent, supplemental, bank-generated form that shows at least the last four
digits of the account number, balance, and date. The statements may be computer-generated forms, including
online account or portfolio statements downloaded by the borrower from the Internet.
Documents that are faxed to the lender or downloaded from the Internet must clearly identify the name of the
depository or investment institution and the source of information—for example, by including that information in
the Internet or fax banner at the top of the document.
If necessary, the lender must supplement these veriﬁcations by obtaining any missing information from the
borrower or the depository institution.
See  B3-4.4-02, Requirements for Certain Assets in DU, for additional information about documentation of assets
for DU loan caseﬁles.
In addition, loans with assets validated by DU must comply with all requirements pertaining to the DU validation
service. Compliance with the DU messages satisﬁes the requirement for documenting assets. This
documentation may diﬀer from the requirements described above. See  B3-2-02, DU Validation Service , for
additional information.
Asset Documentation Provided by a Third-Party Asset Veriﬁcation Vendor
Direct veriﬁcation by a third-party asset veriﬁcation vendor. These veriﬁcations are acceptable as long as:
the borrower provided proper authorizations for the lender to use the veriﬁcation method,
the veriﬁed information provided must conform with the information that would be provided on
Published June 3, 2026
414
Form 1006 or on bank statements,
the date of the completed veriﬁcation is in compliance with B1-1-03, Allowable Age of Credit
Documents and Federal Income Tax Returns,
the lender has determined that the vendor maintains reasonable practices that ensure reliable and
authorized veriﬁcations of deposit and asset information (see A4-1-01, Maintaining Seller/Servicer
Eligibility), and
the lender understands it will be held accountable for the integrity of the information obtained
from this source.
Blanket Authorization Form
Rather than having the applicant sign multiple forms, the lender may have the applicant sign an authorization
form which gives the lender blanket authorization to request the information it needs to evaluate the applicant’s
creditworthiness. (See  B1-1-02, Blanket Authorization Form.) When the lender uses this type of blanket
authorization, it must attach a copy of the authorization form to each Form 1006 it sends to the depository
institutions in which the applicant has accounts.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-06 July 7, 2021
 
B3-4.2-02, Depository Accounts (12/14/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on depository accounts, including:
Depository Accounts
Business Assets
Evaluating Large Deposits
Request for Veriﬁcation of Deposit