SECTION: B3-5.3-09
TITLE: DU Credit Report Analysis
EFFECTIVE: 06/03/2026
PAGES: 495-503
---
Published June 3, 2026
477
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis (06/03/2026)
Introduction
This topic describes how DU analyzes credit report data and requirements lenders must follow in response to
the credit-related Findings messages. This topic includes:
Inquiries
Trended Credit Data
Omitted Accounts
Authorized User Tradelines
Disputed Credit Report Tradelines
DU Debt Comparison
Contradictory, Derogatory, or Erroneous Information
Duplicate Public Records
Judgments and Liens
Mortgage Delinquencies
Past-Due, Collection, and Charge-Oﬀ of Non-Mortgage Accounts
Prior Bankruptcy, Foreclosure, Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure, Preforeclosure Sales, and Charge-Oﬀ of
Mortgage Accounts
Bankruptcy
Foreclosure
Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure
Preforeclosure Sales or Short Sales
Charge-Oﬀ of Mortgage Accounts
Inquiries
The lender should examine inquiries to determine whether they represent potential sources of undisclosed
credit. If new debt was obtained, the lender may need to correct the loan application and resubmit it.
Trended Credit Data
Lenders are not required to analyze trended credit data in the credit report. For more information, see B3-2-03,
Risk Factors Evaluated by DU.
Omitted Accounts
Supporting documentation is required when a credit report liability with a balance greater than zero is omitted
from the loan application.
Published June 3, 2026
478
Authorized User Tradelines
DU takes credit report tradelines designated as authorized user tradelines into consideration as part of the DU
credit risk assessment. No additional investigation of the borrower's credit history is required by the lender
unless instructed by DU. Refer to B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations for requirements on when a debt may be
excluded from a borrower's debt-to-income ratio.
For manual underwriting consideration of authorized users of credit, see B3-5.3-06, Authorized Users of Credit.
Disputed Credit Report Tradelines
When the credit report contains tradelines disputed by the borrower, DU will ﬁrst assess the risk of the loan
caseﬁle using all tradelines, including those disputed. If DU issues an Approve recommendation using the
disputed tradelines, no further documentation or action is necessary. DU will issue a message speciﬁc to this
scenario.
If DU does not issue an Approve recommendation when including the disputed tradelines, DU will re-assess the
risk without using the disputed tradelines. If DU is then able to issue an Approve recommendation, the lender
must investigate the tradelines to determine whether the borrower is responsible for the accounts or if the
account information is accurate or complete.
If the borrower is not responsible for the disputed accounts, the lender must obtain supporting
documentation and may deliver the loan as a DU loan. No further action is necessary regarding the
disputed tradelines.
If the borrower is responsible for the disputed account, the lender must investigate the information,
including determining the aspect of the tradeline that is being disputed. If the borrower is able to provide
documentation to disprove any adverse information (such as canceled checks), the lender may deliver
the loan as a DU loan.
If the borrower is responsible for the disputed account and the account and tradeline information is
accurate and complete, the loan is not eligible for delivery as a DU loan. The lender may manually
underwrite the loan if the transaction is eligible for manual underwriting.
The monthly payments for the disputed tradelines must be included in the debt-to-income ratio if the accounts
belong to the borrower.
Note: Tradelines reported as medical debt are not shown in the disputed tradeline message.
Therefore, lenders are not required to investigate disputed medical tradelines.
Examples
The following scenarios are examples of when a loan receiving an Approve/Eligible recommendation with the
disputed tradeline(s) excluded from DU's risk assessment would be eligible for delivery as a DU loan:
A borrower’s account was referred for collection by the creditor. Subsequently, the borrower paid oﬀ the
account, but the pay-oﬀ was not reported on the tradeline. The borrower requested that a dispute be
placed on the tradeline. The tradeline information was accurate, but because it did not reﬂect that the
borrower paid oﬀ the account, it may be considered incomplete. The borrower must provide
documentation that the account was paid in full.
Published June 3, 2026
479
A borrower and his son have the same name (Sr. and Jr.). The borrower’s credit report contains a
tradeline that actually belongs to the son. The tradeline is reported as disputed. The borrower can
provide conﬁrmation that they are not obligated on the account.
The servicer of a disputed loan indicates a late payment in January of the previous year. The borrower
can provide documentation (such as canceled checks or bank statements) that indicate that the payment
was made on time.
The following scenario is an example of when a loan receiving an Approve/Eligible recommendation with the
disputed tradeline(s) excluded from DU’s risk assessment would not be eligible for delivery as a DU loan:
The credit report indicates a disputed tradeline on the borrower’s mortgage being reﬁnanced. The
tradeline indicates a 60–day late payment in January of the previous year. The borrower cannot provide
any documentation to support that the payment was made on time.
DU Debt Comparison
DU compares the balances and payments of the debts on the credit report with the debts on the loan
application. If material diﬀerences are found, the lender must conﬁrm that all debts from the credit report are
included on the loan application and provide documentation to support the use of payments and balances lower
than those on the credit report. If the debt aﬀects the debt-to-income ratio by more than the allowable
tolerances, the lender must add the debt to the loan application and resubmit the loan. Otherwise, the lender is
expected to provide documentation that supports the omission from the loan application. See B3-6-02, Debt-to-
Income Ratios, and B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the Credit Report, for additional
information.)
Contradictory, Derogatory, or Erroneous Information
Lenders are obligated to take action when contradictory, derogatory, or erroneous information would justify
additional investigation or would provide grounds for a decision that is diﬀerent from the recommendation DU
delivers. For example, if the credit report reﬂects a previous foreclosure but the information was not accurately
mapped to DU, the lender must consider this when making its ﬁnal underwriting decision.
Duplicate Public Records
Items that typically appear in the Public Records section of the credit report (judgments, bankruptcies,
foreclosures, and tax liens) are often duplicated because the credit agencies may not attempt to merge items of
this severe nature. As a result, these items may also appear in more than one veriﬁcation message in the
Underwriting Findings report. If it is clear from the credit report data that the items are duplicates (identical
account numbers, date ﬁled, and dollar amounts), the lender can disregard the duplicates and document the
item once. However, if it is unclear from the credit report whether any of the items are duplicated, the lender
should treat each item individually and obtain the required documentation for each item, as indicated in the
veriﬁcation messages.
Judgments and Liens
Published June 3, 2026
480
Open judgments and all outstanding liens that are in the Public Records section of the credit report will be
identiﬁed in the Underwriting Findings report, and must be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing. Documentation of the
satisfaction of these liabilities, along with veriﬁcation of funds suﬃcient to satisfy these obligations, must also
be maintained in the permanent loan ﬁle.
Mortgage Delinquencies
DU applies the following guidelines to the processing of loans with mortgage delinquencies:
If any borrower’s credit report contains a mortgage tradeline that is 60 or more days past due when the
account was last reported by the creditor and the account was reported within the 12 months prior to the
credit report date, the loan caseﬁle will receive an Ineligible recommendation and will be ineligible for
delivery to Fannie Mae.
If there is a mortgage that is disclosed on the loan application but not reported on the credit report, or
the mortgage is on the credit report with an outstanding balance but the payment history has not been
reported in the last six months, DU will issue a message requiring the lender to conﬁrm that the account
is not two or more payments past due as of the date of the application and that it has not been past due
by two or more payments in the last 12 months. If the lender determines that the borrower does have a
mortgage that is past due by two or more payments or has been past due by two or more payments in
the last 12 months, then the loan caseﬁle is not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
Borrowers may not bring past-due mortgage accounts current prior to closing in order to circumvent
Fannie Mae’s policy regarding past-due mortgages. However, the lender may apply some discretion with
regard to the application of this policy if it determines and documents that the past-due account status
was not the fault of the borrower—for example, if the servicer misapplied or lost the borrower’s payment.
Loan caseﬁles will receive an Ineligible recommendation due to excessive prior mortgage delinquency if
the borrower has a mortgage tradeline on their credit report that has one or more 60-, 90-, 120-, or 150-
day delinquency reported within the 12 months prior to the credit report date.
The above policies will apply to all mortgage tradelines, including ﬁrst liens, second liens, home improvement
loans, HELOCs, and manufactured home loans.
Underwriting when the Credit Report Contains Inaccurate Mortgage Delinquency Information
When DU identiﬁes a mortgage delinquency on the credit report and the information is inaccurate, the
lender may instruct DU to disregard the mortgage delinquency information on the credit report. This is
done by entering “Conﬁrmed Mtg Del Incorrect” in the online loan application and resubmitting the loan
caseﬁle to DU. When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU, the mortgage delinquency information on the
credit report will not be used.
If the lender enters “Conﬁrmed Mtg Del Incorrect”, the lender must document that the mortgage is not
currently 60 days or more past due, and has not been 60 days or more past due in the last 12 months.
Past-Due, Collection, and Charge-Oﬀ of Non-Mortgage Accounts
Accounts that are reported as past due (not reported as collection accounts) must be brought current. Medical
collection accounts are excluded from the limits below and are not required to be paid in full at or prior to
closing.
For one-unit, principal residence properties, borrowers are not required to pay oﬀ outstanding collections
Published June 3, 2026
481
or non-mortgage charge-oﬀs—regardless of the amount.
Note: If the lender marks the collection account Paid By Close in the online loan application, DU
will issue a message in the DU Underwriting Findings report stating that the collection must be
paid.
For two- to four-unit owner-occupied and second home properties, collections and non-mortgage charge-
oﬀs totaling more than $5,000 must be paid in full prior to or at closing.
For investment properties, individual collection and non-mortgage charge-oﬀ accounts equal to or greater
than $250 and accounts that total more than $1,000 must be paid in full prior to or at closing.
Prior Bankruptcy, Foreclosure, Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure, Preforeclosure Sales,
and Charge-Oﬀ of Mortgage Accounts
Per the requirements of B3-5.3-07, Signiﬁcant Derogatory Credit Events — Waiting Periods and Re-establishing
Credit, an amount of time must elapse (the “waiting period”) after a signiﬁcant derogatory credit event before
the borrower is eligible for a new loan salable to Fannie Mae. The waiting period commences on the completion,
discharge, or dismissal date (as applicable) of the derogatory credit event and ends on the disbursement date of
the new loan. Because DU does not have the disbursement date of the subject loan, DU uses the date of the
credit report to measure whether or not the applicable waiting period has been met. However, because the
credit report date may not result in an accurate calculation of the waiting period (it is earlier than the
disbursement date), the lender may use the disbursement date to conﬁrm that the waiting period has been met.
See the table below for additional information.
Published June 3, 2026
482
Event Measurement of Waiting Period
Bankruptcy
Foreclosure
 
• If the completion, discharge, or dismissal dates (as
applicable) reﬂected in the credit report are complete
and appear to comply with the applicable waiting
period requirements, DU will issue a recommendation,
but the lender must still conﬁrm that the waiting period
has been met and may base its determination on the
disbursement date of the new loan.
• If the completion, discharge, or dismissal dates (as
applicable) reﬂected in the credit report are complete,
but do not appear to comply with the applicable
waiting period requirements, an
Ineligible recommendation will be issued. DU uses the
date of the credit report to determine whether or not
the applicable waiting period has been met. The lender
may obtain an updated credit report and resubmit the
loan caseﬁle to DU after the required time has elapsed
or manually underwrite the loan using the
disbursement date to conﬁrm that the waiting period
has been met.
• If the completion, discharge, or dismissal dates (as
applicable) reﬂected in the credit report are
incomplete, the lender must conﬁrm that the waiting
period has been met and may base its determination
on the disbursement date of the new loan.
Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure
Preforeclosure Sale
Mortgage Charge-Oﬀ
• DU will determine if the date of the event was within
the applicable waiting period. However, the
recommendation will not be changed and the lender
must conﬁrm the waiting period requirement has been
met, and may base its determination on the
disbursement date of the new loan.
Note: See B3-5.3-07, Signiﬁcant Derogatory Credit Events — Waiting Periods and Re-establishing
Credit, for additional information regarding signiﬁcant derogatory events. DU is not able to identify
whether the borrower’s derogatory credit event(s) was the result of extenuating circumstances. See
below for information on how to treat extenuating circumstances and B3-5.3-08, Extenuating
Circumstances for Derogatory Credit, for additional information.
Bankruptcy
Published June 3, 2026
483
DU applies the following guidelines to prior bankruptcies:
If a Chapter 13 bankruptcy was discharged within the last two years, dismissed within the last four years,
or ﬁled but neither discharged nor dismissed within the last four years, the loan caseﬁle will receive an
Ineligible recommendation and will be ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
If a non-Chapter 13 bankruptcy was ﬁled, discharged, or dismissed within the last four years, the loan
caseﬁle will receive an Ineligible recommendation and will be ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
DU will not take bankruptcy information in the public record section of the credit report into account if the
bankruptcy is dated more than seven years prior to the credit report date.
DU will not take tradeline accounts that are reported with a bankruptcy status code or manner of
payment (MOP) code of “7” into account if there is at least one bankruptcy reported in a public record
within seven years of the credit report date. In this scenario, DU assumes the date ﬁled and the date
discharged in the public record are more accurate than the dates in the tradeline; i.e., speciﬁc ﬁled and
discharged dates do not exist in the tradeline.
DU will use tradeline accounts that are reported with a bankruptcy status code or MOP code of “7” if
there is not a bankruptcy reported in a public record within seven years of the credit report date. In this
scenario, the lender will need to verify the actual ﬁled and discharged dates to determine that the
bankruptcy meets the DU bankruptcy policy.
DU is not able to determine if multiple ﬁlings have occurred due to the manner in which bankruptcies are
reported to the credit report. DU will issue a message when it appears that there may have been multiple
bankruptcy ﬁlings. This message will list each of the bankruptcies seen on the credit report, and will
instruct lenders to ensure the loan caseﬁle meets the criteria for underwriting loan caseﬁles with multiple
bankruptcies.
Underwriting when the Credit Report Contains Inaccurate Bankruptcy Information
When DU identiﬁes a bankruptcy on the credit report and the information is inaccurate, the lender may
instruct DU to disregard the bankruptcy information on the credit report in the eligibility assessment. This
is done by entering “Conﬁrmed CR BK Incorrect” in the online loan application and resubmitting the loan
caseﬁle to DU. When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU, the bankruptcy information on the credit
report will not be used.
If the lender enters “Conﬁrmed CR BK Incorrect”, the lender must document that the Chapter 13
bankruptcy was discharged two or more years or dismissed four or more years from the disbursement
date of the new loan, or that the non-Chapter 13 bankruptcy was discharged or dismissed four years or
more years from the disbursement date of the new loan
Underwriting when a Bankruptcy Was Due to Extenuating Circumstances
When DU identiﬁes a bankruptcy on the credit report and that bankruptcy was due to extenuating
circumstances, the lender may instruct DU to disregard the bankruptcy information on the credit report in
the eligibility assessment. This is done by entering “Conﬁrmed CR BK EC” in the online loan application
and resubmitting the loan caseﬁle to DU. When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU, the bankruptcy
information on the credit report will not be used.
If the lender enters “Conﬁrmed CR BK EC”, the lender must document that the bankruptcy was due to
extenuating circumstances, and that the Chapter 13 bankruptcy was dismissed two or more years from
the disbursement date of the new loan, or that the non-Chapter 13 bankruptcy was discharged or
dismissed two or more years from the disbursement date of the new loan.
Foreclosure
Published June 3, 2026
484
DU applies the following guidelines to prior foreclosures:
Mortgage accounts, including ﬁrst liens, second liens, home improvement loans, HELOCs, and
manufactured home loans, will be identiﬁed as a foreclosure if there is an MOP code of “8,” or a Remarks
Code that indicates a foreclosure is present in the credit report data and associated to the tradeline.
If a foreclosure was reported within the seven-year period prior to the credit report date, the loan caseﬁle
will receive an Ineligible recommendation and will be ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae.
If the ﬁled date and the satisﬁed date of the foreclosure are both unknown, but it appears that the
foreclosure occurred within the seven-year period prior to the credit report date, the lender must conﬁrm
that the foreclosure did not occur within the most recent seven-year period.
Foreclosure laws vary by state and the time it takes to complete the process may vary by state. DU
assumes that the date the foreclosure was reported in the tradeline is the date of the foreclosure sale or
liquidation. The lender must conﬁrm that all foreclosures are satisﬁed.
Mortgage accounts that are identiﬁed as a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure or preforeclosure sale will not be
identiﬁed as a foreclosure.
Underwriting when Inaccurate Foreclosure Information Exists
When DU identiﬁes a foreclosure on a credit report tradeline and the foreclosure information on that
tradeline is inaccurate, the lender may instruct DU to disregard the foreclosure information on the credit
report in the eligibility assessment. This is done by entering “Conﬁrmed CR FC Incorrect” in the online
loan application and resubmitting the loan caseﬁle to DU. When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU,
the foreclosure information on the credit report tradeline will not be used in the eligibility assessment.
If the lender enters “Conﬁrmed CR FC Incorrect,” the lender must then document the foreclosure was
completed seven or more years from the disbursement date of the new loan, or that the account was not
subject to foreclosure and the loan complies with all other applicable requirements.
Underwriting when Extenuating Circumstances Exist
When DU identiﬁes a foreclosure on a credit report tradeline and that foreclosure was due to extenuating
circumstances, the lender may instruct DU to disregard the foreclosure information on the credit report in
the eligibility assessment. This is done by entering “Conﬁrmed CR FC EC” in the online loan application
and resubmitting the loan caseﬁle to DU. When the loan caseﬁle is resubmitted to DU, the foreclosure
information on the credit report tradeline will not be used in the eligibility assessment.
If the lender enters “Conﬁrmed CR FC EC,” the lender must then document that the foreclosure was due
to extenuating circumstances, the foreclosure was completed three or more years from the disbursement
date of the new loan, and the loan complies with all other requirements speciﬁc to a foreclosure due to
extenuating circumstances.
Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure
DU applies the following guidelines to prior DILs:
DU will determine if a mortgage tradeline is a DIL by using speciﬁc Remarks Codes that are present in the
credit report data and associated to the tradeline.
When DU identiﬁes a DIL, the lender must document that the event was completed four or more years
from the disbursement date of the new loan, or two or more years from the disbursement date of the new
loan when the lender conﬁrms that the mortgage loan meets the applicable time frames and eligibility
requirements for a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure due to extenuating circumstances.
Published June 3, 2026
485
Preforeclosure Sales or Short Sales
DU will determine if a mortgage tradeline is a PFS by using speciﬁc Remarks Codes that are present in
the credit report data and associated to the tradeline.
When DU identiﬁes a PFS, the lender must document that the event was completed four or more years
from the disbursement date of the new loan, or two or more years from the disbursement date of the new
loan when the lender conﬁrms that the mortgage loan meets the applicable time frames and eligibility
requirements for a preforeclosure sale due to extenuating circumstances.
Charge-Oﬀ of Mortgage Accounts
Mortgage accounts, including ﬁrst liens, second liens, home improvements loans, HELOCs, and
manufactured home loans, will be identiﬁed as a charge-oﬀ if there is an MOP code of “9” (collection or
charge-oﬀ) and there is no information indicating the account may also be subject to a foreclosure (MOP
code “8” or foreclosure Remarks Code), a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure (DIL Remarks Code), or a
preforeclosure sale (PFS Remarks Code).
When DU identiﬁes a charge-oﬀ on a mortgage tradeline, the lender must document that the event was
completed four or more years from the disbursement date of the new loan, or two or more years from the
disbursement date of the new loan when the lender conﬁrms that the mortgage loan meets the
applicable time frames and eligibility requirements for a charge-oﬀ due to extenuating circumstances.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-06 June 03, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement-SEL-2018-05 June 05, 2018
Section B3-5.4, Nontraditional Credit History