SECTION: B3-5.3-02
TITLE: Payment History
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2009
PAGES: 484-484
---
Published June 3, 2026
466
as agreed on newly opened accounts represents less of a risk than not making payments as agreed on older,
established accounts.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-02, Payment History (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the borrower’s payment history.
Payment History
Payment History
The lender must review the borrower’s credit report to determine the current status of each credit account
(including mortgage accounts), the timeliness of payments, and the frequency, recency, and severity of any
delinquent payments.
Credit histories that include no late payments, collection or charged-oﬀ accounts, foreclosures, deeds-in-
lieu, bankruptcies, or other public records information represent a lower credit risk.
Credit histories that include recent late payments represent a higher credit risk than those with late
payments that occurred more than 24 months ago. When there are payments that were 30, 60, or 90
days (or longer) past due, the lender must determine whether the late payments represent isolated
incidences or frequent occurrences. Delinquent payments must be evaluated in the context of the
borrower’s overall credit history, including the number and age of accounts, credit utilization, and recent
attempts to obtain new credit. For example, a credit history that includes delinquent payments along with
recent inquiries and a high balances-to-limits ratio indicates a high credit risk.
Credit histories that include foreclosures, deeds-in-lieu, and public records information (such as
bankruptcies, judgments, and liens) represent a higher credit risk. The greater the number of such
incidences and the more recently they occurred, the higher the credit risk.
For information about mortgage payment history, see B3-5.3-03, Previous Mortgage Payment History.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.