SECTION: B3-5.2-03
TITLE: Accuracy of Credit Information in a Credit Report
EFFECTIVE: 07/25/2017
PAGES: 482-483
---
Published June 3, 2026
464
to obtain additional information that is needed to provide an accurate report or perform additional research to
verify whether the purported undisclosed records actually exist.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
B3-5.2-03, Accuracy of Credit Information in a Credit Report
(07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the following:
Accuracy of Credit Information in a Credit Report
Disputed Tradelines
Accuracy of Credit Information in a Credit Report
For all mortgage loans (including DU loan caseﬁles and manually underwritten loans), the lender is responsible
for reviewing the credit report, as well as all credit information, to determine that the credit report meets Fannie
Mae's requirements and that the data evaluated by DU was accurate.
If a borrower indicates that any signiﬁcant information in the credit ﬁle is inaccurate—such as reported accounts
that do not belong to the borrower or derogatory information that is reported in error—the lender should
carefully review the credit information with the borrower, then request the credit reporting company that
provided the information to conﬁrm its accuracy.
Disputed Tradelines
Manually Underwritten Loans
If the borrower has disputed information in their credit ﬁle, and the credit reporting company conﬁrms that the
disputed information is incorrect or incomplete and underwriting the loan needs to be completed before the
credit ﬁles can be corrected, the lender cannot use the credit score(s) when manually underwriting the loan.
Instead, the credit risk assessment must be based on a review of the borrower’s traditional credit history.
If there are multiple disputed tradelines or a dispute on a mortgage tradeline, the lender should obtain
Published June 3, 2026
465
correspondence directly from the borrower indicating the reason for the dispute. The aspect of the
tradeline–such as balance and payment history–that is being disputed is of particular interest when considering
the impact to the borrower’s overall credit proﬁle.
The lender is responsible for determining whether the borrower’s explanation is reasonable and/or whether
additional documentation (such as canceled checks) is necessary to disprove the adverse information. Lenders
are not required to investigate disputed medical tradelines.
DU Loans
For loan caseﬁles underwritten through DU, DU will indicate if the lender is required to investigate the disputed
account to determine if the account belongs to the borrower and conﬁrm the accuracy and completeness of the
information reported on the account.
See B3-2-09, Erroneous Credit Report Data; B3-2-10, Accuracy of DU Data, DU Tolerances, and Errors in the
Credit Report; and B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Section B3-5.3, Traditional Credit History
B3-5.3-01, Number and Age of Accounts (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the number and age of accounts.
Number and Age of Accounts
Number and Age of Accounts
The lender must review the borrower’s credit report to determine whether they have an older established credit
history or a newly established credit history, and whether there are a signiﬁcant number of recently opened
accounts or a mix of new accounts and older accounts.
Credit histories that include older, established accounts generally represent lower credit risk. However, an older,
established credit history that includes a signiﬁcant number of recently opened accounts may indicate that the
borrower is overextended, and thus will represent a higher credit risk.
A newly established credit history does not automatically represent a higher credit risk, since making payments