SECTION: B3-5.3-05
TITLE: Credit Utilization
EFFECTIVE: 05/31/2016
PAGES: 487-487
---
Published June 3, 2026
469
signiﬁcant number of recently opened accounts or delinquent accounts represents a high credit risk.
When the credit report indicates that recent inquiries took place, the lender must conﬁrm that the borrower has
not obtained any additional credit that is not reﬂected in the credit report or the mortgage application. If
additional credit was obtained, a veriﬁcation of that debt must be provided and the borrower must be qualiﬁed
with the monthly payment.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-05, Credit Utilization (05/31/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on credit utilization.
Credit Utilization
Credit Utilization
When manually underwriting a loan, the lender must review the borrower’s credit report to evaluate their use of
revolving credit by comparing the current balance on each open account to the amount of credit that is
available to determine whether the borrower has a pattern of using revolving accounts up to (or approaching)
the credit limit. Patterns of revolving credit spending are credit risk indicative.
Credit histories that include revolving accounts with a low balances-to-limits ratio generally represent a lower
credit risk, while those that include accounts with a high balances-to-limits ratio represent a higher credit risk.
A credit history that includes recently opened accounts that are at or near their limits may indicate that the
borrower is overextended or overly reliant on the use of revolving credit—and, when this is combined with a
delinquent payment history, it is generally an indication that the borrower has not managed their credit
successfully.
Note: Lenders are not required to analyze trended credit data in the credit report. See B3-5.2-01,
Requirements for Credit Reports, for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.