SECTION: B3-5.3-03
TITLE: Previous Mortgage Payment History
EFFECTIVE: 07/25/2017
PAGES: 484-486
---
Published June 3, 2026
466
as agreed on newly opened accounts represents less of a risk than not making payments as agreed on older,
established accounts.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-02, Payment History (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the borrower’s payment history.
Payment History
Payment History
The lender must review the borrower’s credit report to determine the current status of each credit account
(including mortgage accounts), the timeliness of payments, and the frequency, recency, and severity of any
delinquent payments.
Credit histories that include no late payments, collection or charged-oﬀ accounts, foreclosures, deeds-in-
lieu, bankruptcies, or other public records information represent a lower credit risk.
Credit histories that include recent late payments represent a higher credit risk than those with late
payments that occurred more than 24 months ago. When there are payments that were 30, 60, or 90
days (or longer) past due, the lender must determine whether the late payments represent isolated
incidences or frequent occurrences. Delinquent payments must be evaluated in the context of the
borrower’s overall credit history, including the number and age of accounts, credit utilization, and recent
attempts to obtain new credit. For example, a credit history that includes delinquent payments along with
recent inquiries and a high balances-to-limits ratio indicates a high credit risk.
Credit histories that include foreclosures, deeds-in-lieu, and public records information (such as
bankruptcies, judgments, and liens) represent a higher credit risk. The greater the number of such
incidences and the more recently they occurred, the higher the credit risk.
For information about mortgage payment history, see B3-5.3-03, Previous Mortgage Payment History.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
467
B3-5.3-03, Previous Mortgage Payment History (07/25/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on previous mortgage payment history requirements, including:
Documenting Previous Mortgage History
Standard Mortgage Veriﬁcations from Servicers
Existing Mortgage Payment Requirements
Excessive Mortgage Delinquency
Documenting Previous Mortgage History
The lender must review the borrower's credit report to determine the status of all mortgage accounts. If a
borrower had previous mortgages, the lender does not have to independently verify the mortgage’s payment
history provided the credit report includes a reference to the mortgage (or mortgages) and reﬂects 12 months
of the most recent payment activity.
If adequate mortgage payment history is not included in the borrower’s credit report, the lender must use the
following to verify the borrower’s payment history on a previous mortgage(s):
a standard mortgage veriﬁcation;
loan payment history from the servicer;
the borrower’s canceled checks for the last 12 months; or
the borrower’s year-end mortgage account statement, provided the statement includes a payment
receipt history, and, if applicable, canceled checks for the months elapsed since the year-end mortgage
account statement was issued.
Standard Mortgage Veriﬁcations from Servicers
When a lender relies on standard mortgage veriﬁcations from servicers or holders, it must ensure that the
veriﬁcations include:
the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage and monthly payment amount;
the present status of the mortgage, such as current, 30 days’ delinquent, etc.; and
the borrower’s payment history.
When a servicer fails to provide all of the requested information, the lender must rely on information provided
through the borrower’s canceled checks. The checks must:
be legible,
identify the mortgage servicer or mortgage holder as the payee,
Published June 3, 2026
468
indicate that the servicer or holder endorsed the check for deposit, and
indicate the date the servicer or holder deposited the check.
Existing Mortgage Payment Requirements
On the date of the loan application, the borrower’s existing mortgage must be current, which means that no
more than 45 days may have elapsed since the last paid installment date.
Excessive Mortgage Delinquency
The lender must review the borrower’s credit history to determine previous mortgage delinquency, severity
(e.g., 30, 60, or 90 days), and recency of the delinquency. Loans with excessive prior mortgage delinquencies
are not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae. Excessive prior mortgage delinquency is deﬁned as any mortgage
tradeline that has one or more 60-, 90-, 120-, or 150-day delinquency reported within the 12 months prior to the
credit report date. See B3-5.3-02, Payment History, and B3-5.3-07, Signiﬁcant Derogatory Credit Events —
Waiting Periods and Re-establishing Credit for additional information.
Note: For purposes of complying with the guidelines in this topic, timeshare accounts identiﬁed as
mortgage tradelines are not required to meet the requirements described above, and are considered
to be installment accounts.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-04, Inquiries: Recent Attempts to Obtain New Credit
(04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on inquiries: recent attempts to obtain new credit.
Inquiries: Recent Attempts to Obtain New Credit
Inquiries: Recent Attempts to Obtain New Credit
The lender must review the section of the borrower’s credit report that indicates the presence of creditor
inquiries to determine the number and recency of the inquiries.
Recent inquiries may indicate that the borrower has been actively seeking new credit accounts. The presence of
a large number of unrelated inquiries represents higher credit risk (whether or not the borrower actually
obtained credit as a result of the inquiry). The presence of many recent inquiries in combination with a