SECTION: B3-5.4-01
TITLE: Eligibility Requirements for Loans with Nontraditional Credit
EFFECTIVE: 11/05/2025
PAGES: 503-506
---
Published June 3, 2026
485
Preforeclosure Sales or Short Sales
DU will determine if a mortgage tradeline is a PFS by using speciﬁc Remarks Codes that are present in
the credit report data and associated to the tradeline.
When DU identiﬁes a PFS, the lender must document that the event was completed four or more years
from the disbursement date of the new loan, or two or more years from the disbursement date of the new
loan when the lender conﬁrms that the mortgage loan meets the applicable time frames and eligibility
requirements for a preforeclosure sale due to extenuating circumstances.
Charge-Oﬀ of Mortgage Accounts
Mortgage accounts, including ﬁrst liens, second liens, home improvements loans, HELOCs, and
manufactured home loans, will be identiﬁed as a charge-oﬀ if there is an MOP code of “9” (collection or
charge-oﬀ) and there is no information indicating the account may also be subject to a foreclosure (MOP
code “8” or foreclosure Remarks Code), a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure (DIL Remarks Code), or a
preforeclosure sale (PFS Remarks Code).
When DU identiﬁes a charge-oﬀ on a mortgage tradeline, the lender must document that the event was
completed four or more years from the disbursement date of the new loan, or two or more years from the
disbursement date of the new loan when the lender conﬁrms that the mortgage loan meets the
applicable time frames and eligibility requirements for a charge-oﬀ due to extenuating circumstances.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-06 June 03, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement-SEL-2018-05 June 05, 2018
Section B3-5.4, Nontraditional Credit History
Published June 3, 2026
486
B3-5.4-01, Eligibility Requirements for Loans with Nontraditional
Credit (11/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on nontraditional credit eligibility requirements, including:
Overview
Manual Underwriting
DU Loan Caseﬁles
Homeownership Education
Overview
If one or more borrowers do not have a credit score or have a limited traditional credit history, the lender must
establish an acceptable nontraditional credit history. The lender must ﬁrst check all three major credit
repositories to verify the borrower’s credit history.
The credit report will indicate if a credit score could not be produced due to insuﬃcient credit. Lenders must
ensure that the credit report accurately reﬂects the borrower’s information, such as the name, Social Security
number, and current residence of the borrower to conﬁrm that the lack of traditional credit was not erroneously
reported because incorrect information was used to order the credit report.
Manual Underwriting
If one or more borrowers on the loan does not have a credit score and is relying on nontraditional credit to
qualify, the following requirements apply:
The property must be a one-unit, principal residence.
Non-occupant co-borrowers are permitted, provided the requirements described in B2-2-04, Guarantors,
Co-Signers, or Non-Occupant Borrowers on the Subject Transaction, are met in addition to the eligibility
requirements described herein.
The transaction must be a purchase or limited cash-out reﬁnance.
The loan amount must meet the baseline loan limits—high-balance mortgage loans are not eligible.
The maximum debt-to-income ratio is 36%.
There is no minimum reserve requirement if at least one borrower can document a housing payment
history as one nontraditional credit reference. Otherwise, a minimum of 12 months reserves is required.
See B3-5.4-02, Number and Types of Nontraditional Credit References, for additional information.
A nontraditional credit history must be documented for each borrower without a credit score. See
B3-5.4-03, Documentation and Assessment of a Nontraditional Credit History, for additional information.
Unacceptable Uses
The establishment of a nontraditional credit history is not acceptable for the following scenarios:
Published June 3, 2026
487
The lender is able to obtain a credit score for the borrower despite the borrower’s limited use of credit.
The borrower has a suﬃcient amount of credit to obtain a credit score and the representative credit score
is less than the minimum required.
Note: An exception is permitted for certain HomeReady loans for borrowers with low credit
scores. See B5-6-02, HomeReady Mortgage Underwriting Methods and Requirements, for
additional information.
The borrower’s traditional credit history indicates signiﬁcant derogatory references, such as a prior
bankruptcy or foreclosure. In these cases, the borrower must have re-established credit in accordance
with B3-5.3-07, Signiﬁcant Derogatory Credit Events — Waiting Periods and Re-establishing Credit,
including the establishment of traditional credit and a credit score.
DU Loan Caseﬁles
When at least one borrower has a minimum of one credit account or installment account reported on their credit
report, DU will assess the risk using the borrower's reported credit and the loan will be subject to standard
eligibility guidelines.
When no borrower has at least one credit account or installment account reported on their credit report, DU will
apply the following requirements:
The property must be a one- to four-unit, principal residence, and all borrowers must occupy the
property.
The transaction must be a purchase or limited cash-out reﬁnance.
Reserves may be required as determined by DU.
In both cases, no veriﬁcation of nontraditional credit references is required for any borrower when DU conducts
a cash ﬂow assessment and issues a message that the third-party asset veriﬁcation report may be used to
satisfy the requirements. Otherwise, a nontraditional credit history must be documented for each borrower as
instructed by DU. See B3-5.4-03, Documentation and Assessment of a Nontraditional Credit History, for
additional information.
If a loan caseﬁle does not receive an Approve/Eligible recommendation, it may receive a more favorable
recommendation if a 12-month asset veriﬁcation report is obtained (see B3-2-03, Risk Factors Evaluated by DU).
In some cases the loan may still be eligible for manual underwriting. The lender must determine whether the
loan meets the requirements for a manually underwritten loan that includes a borrower without a credit score.
Homeownership Education
See B2-2-06, Homeownership Education and Housing Counseling, for the requirements.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
488
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
 
B3-5.4-02, Number and Types of Nontraditional Credit References
(02/04/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on nontraditional credit references, including
Number of Nontraditional Credit References Required
Eligible Types of Nontraditional Credit References
Number of Nontraditional Credit References Required
The number of nontraditional credit references that must be documented for a borrower without a credit score
diﬀers depending on the underwriting method and loan product, as described in the table below.
 Number of Nontraditional Credit References Required
Underwriting Method Loans other than HomeReady
Loans HomeReady Loans