SECTION: B3-5.3-08
TITLE: Extenuating Circumstances for Derogatory Credit
EFFECTIVE: 12/16/2014
PAGES: 494-495
---
Published June 3, 2026
476
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B3-5.3-08, Extenuating Circumstances for Derogatory Credit
(12/16/2014)
Introduction
This topic provides information on extenuating circumstances for derogatory credit information.
Extenuating Circumstances
Extenuating Circumstances
Extenuating circumstances are nonrecurring events that are beyond the borrower’s control that result in a
sudden, signiﬁcant, and prolonged reduction in income or a catastrophic increase in ﬁnancial obligations.
If a borrower claims that derogatory information is the result of extenuating circumstances, the lender must
substantiate the borrower’s claim. Examples of documentation that can be used to support extenuating
circumstances include
documents that conﬁrm the event
such as a copy of a divorce decree, medical reports or bills, notice of job layoﬀ, job severance
papers, etc.; and
documents that illustrate factors that contributed to the borrower’s inability to resolve the problems that
resulted from the event
such as a copy of insurance papers or claim settlements, property listing agreements, lease
agreements, tax returns (covering the periods prior to, during, and after a loss of employment),
etc.
The lender must obtain a written explanation from the borrower explaining the relevance of the documentation.
The written explanation must support the claims of extenuating circumstances, conﬁrm the nature of the event
that led to the bankruptcy or foreclosure-related action, and illustrate that the borrower had no reasonable
options other than to default on his or her ﬁnancial obligations. The written explanation may be in the form of a
letter from the borrower, an email from the borrower, or some other form of written documentation provided by
the borrower.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
477
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis (06/03/2026)
Introduction
This topic describes how DU analyzes credit report data and requirements lenders must follow in response to
the credit-related Findings messages. This topic includes:
Inquiries
Trended Credit Data
Omitted Accounts
Authorized User Tradelines
Disputed Credit Report Tradelines
DU Debt Comparison
Contradictory, Derogatory, or Erroneous Information
Duplicate Public Records
Judgments and Liens
Mortgage Delinquencies
Past-Due, Collection, and Charge-Oﬀ of Non-Mortgage Accounts
Prior Bankruptcy, Foreclosure, Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure, Preforeclosure Sales, and Charge-Oﬀ of
Mortgage Accounts
Bankruptcy
Foreclosure
Deed-in-Lieu of Foreclosure
Preforeclosure Sales or Short Sales
Charge-Oﬀ of Mortgage Accounts
Inquiries
The lender should examine inquiries to determine whether they represent potential sources of undisclosed
credit. If new debt was obtained, the lender may need to correct the loan application and resubmit it.
Trended Credit Data
Lenders are not required to analyze trended credit data in the credit report. For more information, see B3-2-03,
Risk Factors Evaluated by DU.
Omitted Accounts
Supporting documentation is required when a credit report liability with a balance greater than zero is omitted
from the loan application.