SECTION: B3-5.3-06
TITLE: Authorized Users of Credit
EFFECTIVE: 10/30/2009
PAGES: 487-488
---
Published June 3, 2026
469
signiﬁcant number of recently opened accounts or delinquent accounts represents a high credit risk.
When the credit report indicates that recent inquiries took place, the lender must conﬁrm that the borrower has
not obtained any additional credit that is not reﬂected in the credit report or the mortgage application. If
additional credit was obtained, a veriﬁcation of that debt must be provided and the borrower must be qualiﬁed
with the monthly payment.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B3-5.3-05, Credit Utilization (05/31/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on credit utilization.
Credit Utilization
Credit Utilization
When manually underwriting a loan, the lender must review the borrower’s credit report to evaluate their use of
revolving credit by comparing the current balance on each open account to the amount of credit that is
available to determine whether the borrower has a pattern of using revolving accounts up to (or approaching)
the credit limit. Patterns of revolving credit spending are credit risk indicative.
Credit histories that include revolving accounts with a low balances-to-limits ratio generally represent a lower
credit risk, while those that include accounts with a high balances-to-limits ratio represent a higher credit risk.
A credit history that includes recently opened accounts that are at or near their limits may indicate that the
borrower is overextended or overly reliant on the use of revolving credit—and, when this is combined with a
delinquent payment history, it is generally an indication that the borrower has not managed their credit
successfully.
Note: Lenders are not required to analyze trended credit data in the credit report. See B3-5.2-01,
Requirements for Credit Reports, for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
470
B3-5.3-06, Authorized Users of Credit (10/30/2009)
Introduction
This topic contains information on authorized users of credit
Authorized Users of Credit
Consideration of Authorized User Accounts
Authorized Users of Credit
When a credit account owner permits another person, typically a family member who is managing credit for the
ﬁrst time, to have access to and use an account, the user is referred to as an authorized user of the account.
This practice is intended to assist related individuals in legitimately establishing a credit history and credit score
based on the account and payment history of the account owner, even though the authorized user is not the
account owner.
Consideration of Authorized User Accounts
For manually underwritten loans, credit report tradelines that list a borrower as an authorized user cannot be
considered in the underwriting decision, except as outlined below.
An authorized user tradeline may be considered if:
another borrower in the mortgage transaction is the owner of the tradeline; or
the borrower can provide written documentation (e.g., canceled checks, payment receipts, etc.) that they
have been the actual and sole payer of the monthly payment on the account for at least 12 months
preceding the date of the application.
If written documentation of the borrower’s monthly payments on the authorized user tradeline is provided, then
the payment history — particularly any late payments that are indicated — must be considered in the credit
analysis and the monthly payment obligation must be included in the debt-to-income ratio.
An authorized user tradeline must be considered if the owner of the tradeline is the borrower's spouse and the
spouse is not a borrower in the mortgage transaction.
These requirements do not apply to loan caseﬁles underwritten through DU. For DU requirements, see
B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.