SECTION: B3-6-07
TITLE: Debts Paid Off At or Prior to Closing
EFFECTIVE: 04/05/2023
PAGES: 530-532
---
Published June 3, 2026
512
Mortgage Assumption
When a borrower sells a mortgaged property and the property purchaser assumes the outstanding mortgage
debt without a release of liability, the borrower has a contingent liability.
The lender is not required to count this contingent liability (PITIA) as part of the borrower’s recurring monthly
debt obligations if the lender veriﬁes that the property purchaser has at least a 12-month history of making
regular, timely payments for the mortgage. The lender can document this by obtaining
evidence of the transfer of ownership;
a copy of the formal, executed assumption agreement; and
a credit report indicating that consistent and timely payments were made for the assumed mortgage.
If the lender cannot document timely payments during the most recent 12-month period, the applicable
mortgage payment must be counted as part of the borrower’s recurring monthly debt obligations.
Property Settlement Buyout
When a borrower’s interest in a property is bought out by another co-owner of the property, as often happens in
a divorce settlement, but the lender does not release the borrower from liability under the mortgage, the
borrower has a contingent liability.
If the lender obtains documentation to conﬁrm the transfer of title to the property, this liability does not have to
be considered as part of the borrower’s recurring monthly debt obligations.
Current Principal Residence Pending Sale
If the borrower's current principal residence is pending sale, but the transaction will not close with title transfer
to the new owner prior to the subject transaction, and the borrower is purchasing a new principal residence, the
current PITIA and the proposed PITIA must be used in qualifying the borrower for the new mortgage loan.
However, Fannie Mae will not require the current principal residence's PITIA to be used in qualifying the
borrower as long as the following documentation is provided:
the executed sales contract for the current residence, and
conﬁrmation that any ﬁnancing contingencies have been cleared.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
513
B3-6-07, Debts Paid Oﬀ At or Prior to Closing (04/05/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on debts paid oﬀ at or prior to closing, including:
Payoﬀ or Paydown of Debt for Qualiﬁcation
Open 30-Day Charge Accounts
Collections, Charge-Oﬀs of Non-Mortgage Accounts, Judgments, and Liens
Payoﬀ or Paydown of Debt for Qualiﬁcation
Payoﬀ or paydown of debt solely to qualify must be carefully evaluated and considered in the overall loan
analysis. The borrower’s history of credit use should be a factor in determining whether the appropriate
approach is to include or exclude debt for qualiﬁcation. Generally
Installment loans that are being paid oﬀ or paid down to 10 or fewer remaining monthly payments do not
need to be included in the borrower’s long-term debt.
If a revolving account balance is to be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing, a monthly payment on the current
outstanding balance does not need to be included in the borrower's long-term debt, i.e., not included in
the debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. Such accounts do not need to be closed as a condition of excluding the
payment from the DTI ratio.
See B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios for additional guidance on calculating total monthly obligations for
qualifying purposes.
Open 30-Day Charge Accounts
For open 30-day charge accounts that do not reﬂect a monthly payment on the credit report, or 30-day
accounts that reﬂect a monthly payment that is identical to the account balance, lenders must verify borrower
funds to cover the account balance. The veriﬁed funds must be in addition to any funds required for closing
costs and reserves.
Note: DU will include the balance of the 30-day charge accounts on the loan application in the
Reserves Required to be Veriﬁed amount shown on the DU Underwriting Findings report. However, for
transactions that do not require the veriﬁcation of reserves, the balance of 30–day charge accounts in
the Reserves Required to be Veriﬁed amount will be reduced by any cash out the borrower will receive
through the transaction.
If the borrower paid oﬀ the account balance prior to closing, the lender may provide proof of payoﬀ in lieu of
verifying funds to cover the account balance.
Collections, Charge-Oﬀs of Non-Mortgage Accounts, Judgments, and Liens
Published June 3, 2026
514
Delinquent credit—including taxes, judgments, charge-oﬀs of non-mortgage accounts (see below for
exceptions), tax liens, mechanic's or materialmen’s liens, and liens that have the potential to aﬀect Fannie
Mae’s lien position or diminish the borrower’s equity—must be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing.
Delinquent federal income taxes that are approved to be paid by a monthly installment agreement with the IRS
must be paid in full at or prior to closing if there is any indication that a Notice of Federal Tax Lien has been
recorded against the borrower in the county in which the subject property is located. For additional information
about federal income tax installment agreements, see  B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations.
For details regarding delinquent federal income taxes that the IRS has approved to be paid through an
installment agreement that can be included as a monthly debt obligation, rather than being paid in full, also see
B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations.
For manually underwritten loans, non-medical collection accounts and charge-oﬀs on non-mortgage accounts do
not have to be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing if the balance of an individual account is less than $250 or the total
balance of all accounts is $1,000 or less. Non-medical collection accounts and charge-oﬀs on non-mortgage
accounts that exceed these limits must be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing.
For DU underwritten loans, refer to  B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
 
B3-6-08, DU: Requirements for Liability Assessment (01/27/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on DU requirements for liability assessment, including:
Reconciling the Loan Application with the Credit Report
Auto-Populating DU Liabilities from the Credit Report
Reconciling the Loan Application with the Credit Report
DU uses liabilities from the loan application, not debts from the credit report, to calculate the debt-to-income
ratio.