SECTION: B3-6-08
TITLE: DU: Requirements for Liability Assessment
EFFECTIVE: 01/27/2015
PAGES: 532-533
---
Published June 3, 2026
514
Delinquent credit—including taxes, judgments, charge-oﬀs of non-mortgage accounts (see below for
exceptions), tax liens, mechanic's or materialmen’s liens, and liens that have the potential to aﬀect Fannie
Mae’s lien position or diminish the borrower’s equity—must be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing.
Delinquent federal income taxes that are approved to be paid by a monthly installment agreement with the IRS
must be paid in full at or prior to closing if there is any indication that a Notice of Federal Tax Lien has been
recorded against the borrower in the county in which the subject property is located. For additional information
about federal income tax installment agreements, see  B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations.
For details regarding delinquent federal income taxes that the IRS has approved to be paid through an
installment agreement that can be included as a monthly debt obligation, rather than being paid in full, also see
B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations.
For manually underwritten loans, non-medical collection accounts and charge-oﬀs on non-mortgage accounts do
not have to be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing if the balance of an individual account is less than $250 or the total
balance of all accounts is $1,000 or less. Non-medical collection accounts and charge-oﬀs on non-mortgage
accounts that exceed these limits must be paid oﬀ at or prior to closing.
For DU underwritten loans, refer to  B3-5.3-09, DU Credit Report Analysis.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-03 April 05, 2023
 
B3-6-08, DU: Requirements for Liability Assessment (01/27/2015)
Introduction
This topic contains information on DU requirements for liability assessment, including:
Reconciling the Loan Application with the Credit Report
Auto-Populating DU Liabilities from the Credit Report
Reconciling the Loan Application with the Credit Report
DU uses liabilities from the loan application, not debts from the credit report, to calculate the debt-to-income
ratio.
Published June 3, 2026
515
To help ensure that all appropriate liabilities are included in the debt-to-income ratio, DU performs a series of
reasonableness tests comparing loan application balances and payments with the credit report balances and
payments. If the values on the loan application are less than the values on the credit report by more than
selected tolerances, the lender must justify the discrepancies between the two. The lender must update the
loan application values if the values are needed to calculate accurate ratios. The information must be updated
either with veriﬁed values from the credit report or with independent, outside veriﬁcations.
Auto-Populating DU Liabilities from the Credit Report
The lender can automatically copy the borrower’s liabilities from the credit report to the loan application by
selecting the auto-populate liabilities option from DU when the credit report is ordered. If the lender’s loan
origination system does not oﬀer this option, or if the lender elects not to use it, the liabilities must be entered
manually into the loan application.
When the auto-populate option is selected, it is not necessary to obtain additional borrower disclosure for
tradelines appearing on the credit report. The lender is still required to obtain full disclosure from all borrowers,
including borrowers who do not have traditional credit, of all existing credit obligations. Liabilities that do not
appear on the credit report, such as monthly housing expenses for taxes, insurance, must be disclosed in the
loan application prior to ﬁnal submission to DU.
If the auto-populate liabilities option is selected BEFORE liabilities have been manually entered in the loan
application:
Open accounts will be automatically copied to the loan application.
Closed accounts on the credit report are not automatically copied to the loan application. If the account
has an outstanding balance, the lender must manually enter the liability in the loan application and
include the monthly payment in the debt-to-income ratio.
Collection accounts on the credit report are not automatically copied to the loan application.
If the auto-populate liabilities option is selected AFTER liabilities have been manually entered in the loan
application:
DU will attempt to match existing liability accounts listed on the loan application to the credit report
liabilities by using a combination of account name and account number.
Open accounts from the credit report that were not manually entered on the loan application will be
automatically copied to the loan application.
DU will use the information on the loan application to calculate the debt-to-income ratio.
If duplicate accounts or accounts that do not belong to the borrower were copied to the loan application and
included in the debt-to-income ratio, they may be omitted (or deleted) from the loan application. Debts that are
omitted will not be counted in the debt-to-income ratio.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.