SECTION: B3-6-01
TITLE: General Information on Liabilities
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 512-514
---
Published June 3, 2026
494
There cannot be any delinquency on housing payments within the past 12 months.
Only one account, excluding housing payments, can have a 30-day delinquency in the past 12 months.
No collections (other than medical collections) or judgments have been ﬁled in the past 24 months.
Judgments, liens, collections, and charge-oﬀs of non-mortgage accounts must be satisﬁed in accordance
with  B3-6-07, Debts Paid Oﬀ At or Prior to Closing (for manually underwritten loans), or B3-5.3-09, DU
Credit Report Analysis (for loans underwritten with DU).
Note: A borrower may lack suﬃcient credit to obtain a credit score. However, the lender must still
consider any derogatory credit references that appear on the credit report.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
 
Chapter B3-6, Liability Assessment
Introduction
This chapter describes liability assessment for qualifying, underwriting, and documentation purposes.
B3-6-01, General Information on Liabilities (05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on liabilities, including:
General Information on Liabilities
Monthly Obligations Not Included in Liabilities
General Information on Liabilities
Published June 3, 2026
495
The lender’s risk analysis must include all liabilities aﬀecting income or assets that will aﬀect the borrower’s
ability to fulﬁll the mortgage payment obligation.
A borrower’s liabilities include the following:
housing payment (mortgage or rent) for each borrower’s principal residence,
all revolving charge accounts,
installment loan debts with a remaining payment term greater than 10 months,
installment debts secured by virtual currency,
lease payments,
real estate loans,
HELOCs,
alimony and child support,
maintenance payments, and
all other debts of a recurring nature.
For each liability, the lender must determine the unpaid balance, the terms of repayment, and the borrower’s
payment history, and verify any other liability that is not shown on a credit report by obtaining documentation
from the borrower or creditor.
If the credit report does not contain a reference for each signiﬁcant open debt shown on the loan
application—including outstanding mortgage debt, bank, student, or credit union loans—the lender must
provide separate credit veriﬁcation.
If a current liability appears on the credit report that is not shown on the loan application, the borrower should
provide a reasonable explanation for the undisclosed debt. Documentation may be required to support the
borrower’s explanation.
If the borrower discloses, or the lender discovers, additional liabilities after the underwriting decision has been
made, up to and concurrent with closing, the lender must recalculate the borrower's debt-to-income ratio.
See B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios and B3-6-03, Monthly Housing Expense for the Subject Property for
additional information.
Monthly Obligations Not Included in Liabilities
Some obligations, often identiﬁed on a borrower’s paystub, are not considered a liability and will not be included
as a debt or deducted from the borrower’s gross income when calculating the borrower’s debt-to-income ratio.
These obligations include items such as
federal, state, and local taxes;
Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) or other retirement contributions, such as 401(k) accounts
(including repayment of debt secured by these funds);
commuting costs;
Published June 3, 2026
496
union dues; and
voluntary deductions.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-01 February 05, 2020
 
B3-6-02, Debt-to-Income Ratios (04/02/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the use of the debt-to-income (DTI) ratio, including:
DTI Ratios
Maximum DTI Ratios
Exceptions to the Maximum DTI Ratio
Calculating Total Monthly Obligation
DTI Ratio Tolerance and Re-Underwriting Criteria
Applying the Re-underwriting Criteria
DTI Ratios
The DTI ratio consists of two components:
total monthly obligations, which includes the qualifying payment for the subject mortgage loan and other
long-term and signiﬁcant short-term monthly debts (see Calculating Total Monthly Obligation below); and
total monthly income of all borrowers, to the extent the income is used to qualify for the mortgage (see
Chapter B3–3, Income Assessment).
Maximum DTI Ratios
For manually underwritten loans, Fannie Mae’s maximum total DTI ratio is 36% of the borrower’s stable monthly