SECTION: B3-6-03
TITLE: Monthly Housing Expense for the Subject Property
EFFECTIVE: 12/16/2020
PAGES: 518-520
---
Published June 3, 2026
500
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
B3-6-03, Monthly Housing Expense for the Subject Property
(12/16/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the following:
Monthly Housing Expense
Calculating Monthly Real Estate Tax Payment
Monthly Housing Expense
Monthly housing expense is the sum of the following and is referred to as PITIA for the subject property:
principal and interest (P&I);
property, ﬂood, and mortgage insurance premiums (as applicable);
real estate taxes;
ground rent;
special assessments;
any owners’ association dues (including utility charges that are attributable to the common areas, but
excluding any utility charges that apply to the individual unit);
any monthly co-op corporation fee (less the pro rata share of the master utility charges for servicing
individual units that is attributable to the borrower’s unit);
any subordinate ﬁnancing payments on mortgages secured by the subject property.
Note: The monthly payment of a subordinate lien associated with a business debt secured by the
subject property can be excluded from the monthly housing expense if it meets the requirements of
Business Debt in the Borrower’s Name in B3-6-05, Monthly Debt Obligations.
Lenders must enter all components of the monthly housing expense on the loan application including
Published June 3, 2026
501
subordinate ﬁnancing P&I, homeowner’s insurance, supplemental property insurance, real estate taxes,
mortgage insurance, association/project dues, and other proposed housing expenses.
If the subject mortgage is secured by the borrower's principal residence, the monthly housing expense is based
on the qualifying payment required in accordance with B3-6-04, Qualifying Payment Requirements. This amount
is the monthly housing expense used to calculate the debt-to-income (DTI) ratio.
If the subject mortgage is secured by a second home or an investment property, the qualifying payment amount
is considered one of the borrower's monthly debt obligations when calculating the DTI ratio.
Calculating Monthly Real Estate Tax Payment
The lender must base its calculation of real estate taxes for borrower qualiﬁcation on no less than the current
assessed value. However, the lender must project the real estate taxes if one of the following applies:
For purchase and construction-related transactions, the lender must use a reasonable estimate of the real
estate taxes based on the value of the land and the total of all new and existing improvements. This
policy also applies to properties in jurisdictions where a transfer of ownership typically results in a
reassessment or revaluation of the property and a corresponding increase in the amount of taxes.
There is a tax abatement on the subject property that will last for no less than 5 years from the note
date. For example:
for a municipality with a 10-year abatement, the lender may qualify the borrower with the reduced
tax amount;
for a municipality with a 10-year abatement and with annual real estate tax increases in years 1
through 10, the lender must qualify the borrower with the annual taxes that will be required at the
end of the 5
th
 year after the ﬁrst mortgage payment date.
The lender has the option to project the real estate taxes if the amount of taxes will be reduced based on
federal, state, or local jurisdictional requirements. However, the taxes may not be reduced if an appeal to
reduce them is only pending and has not been approved.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-02 April 01, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-01 February 05, 2020
Published June 3, 2026
502
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
B3-6-04, Qualifying Payment Requirements (02/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on determining the borrower’s monthly PITIA used for qualifying purposes,
including:
Qualifying Payment Amount
Additional Information About ARM Qualifying for DU Loan Caseﬁles
Qualifying Payment Amount
The calculation of the qualifying payment amount for the subject property will diﬀer based on the transaction
type (as shown in the following table). For all loans, the qualifying rate is based on the original loan amount and
the loan amortization term.
These policies apply to both manually underwritten loans and DU loan caseﬁles. In all cases, qualiﬁcation must
consider the borrower's current obligations and other mortgage-related obligations, e.g. PITIA.
Loans subject to temporary interest rate buydowns must be qualiﬁed without consideration of the bought-down
rate, based on the transaction type below.
Qualifying Interest Rate Requirements
Transaction Type DU and Manual Underwriting
Fixed-rate mortgages Note rate
ARMs with initial ﬁxed-rate period of three years
or less
The maximum interest rate that could apply during
the ﬁrst ﬁve years after the ﬁrst payment is due.