SECTION: B4-1.4-06
TITLE: Community Land Trust Appraisal Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 623-626
---
Published June 3, 2026
605
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
 
B4-1.4-06, Community Land Trust Appraisal Requirements
(06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on special appraisal considerations for properties subject to a community land
trust, including:
Appraiser Qualiﬁcations for Appraising Properties Located in a Community Land Trust
Appraisal Requirements for Community Land Trust Appraisals
Comparable Selection Requirements for Determining Fee Simple Value
Determining the Capitalization Rate
Determining the Leasehold Value
Addendum to the Appraisal Report
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Appraiser Qualiﬁcations for Appraising Properties Located in a Community Land
Trust
The lender must ensure that the appraiser is knowledgeable and experienced in the appraisal techniques,
namely the direct capitalization and the market derivation of capitalization rates that are necessary to appraise
a property subject to a leasehold estate held by a community land trust. Lenders must establish policies and
procedures to ensure that qualiﬁed individuals are being selected in accordance with Fannie Mae requirements
including the Appraiser Independence Requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
606
Appraisal Requirements for Community Land Trust Appraisals
The appraisal requirements for community land trust properties are as follows:
The appraiser must analyze the property subject to the ground lease when a leasehold interest is held by
a community land trust. Because the community land trust typically subsidizes the sales price to the
borrower, that price may be signiﬁcantly less than the market value of the leasehold interest in the
property.
The appraised value of the leasehold interest in the property must be well supported and correctly
developed by the appraiser because the resale restrictions, as well as other restrictions that may be
included in the ground lease, can also aﬀect the value of the property. Fannie Mae requires the
Community Land Trust Ground Lease Rider, that the lender and the borrower must execute, to remove
such restrictions from the community land trust’s ground lease. The land records for the subject property
must include adoption of the terms and conditions that are incorporated in that ground lease rider. The
appraiser must develop the opinion of value for the leasehold interest under the hypothetical condition
that the property rights being appraised are the leasehold interest without the resale and other
restrictions that the ground lease rider removes when Fannie Mae has to dispose of a property acquired
through foreclosure. (For additional information, see Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions, for legal
considerations.)
The appraiser must use a three-step process to develop an opinion of value.
Step The appraiser must determine
1 the fee simple value of the property by using the sales comparison analysis approach to value,
2 the applicable capitalization rate and convert the income from the ground lease into a leased fee
value by using the market-derived capitalization rate, and
3 the leasehold value by reducing the fee simple value by the lease fee value. (For detailed
information related to this process, see below.)
Note: When this appraisal technique is used, there is no need to document the actual land value of
the security property.
On the actual appraisal report form, the appraiser must
indicate “leasehold” as the property rights appraised,
provide the applicable ground rent paid to the community land trust,
show the estimated fee simple value for the property in the Sales Comparison Approach
adjustment grid,
report the “leasehold value” as the indicated value conclusion, and
check the box “as is” and include in the addendum the development of the capitalization rate and
an expanded discussion of the comparable sales used and considered.
Comparable Selection Requirements for Determining Fee Simple Value
Published June 3, 2026
607
In determining the fee simple value of the subject property, the appraiser must use comparable sales of similar
properties that are owned as fee simple estates. If this is not possible, the appraiser may use sales of properties
that are subject to other types of leasehold estates as long as they make appropriate adjustments, based on the
terms of their leases, to reﬂect a fee simple interest.
When the community or neighborhood has sales activity for other leasehold estates held by a community land
trust, the appraiser must discuss them in the appraisal report, but must not use them as comparable sales
because, in all likelihood, the sales prices will have been limited by restrictions in the ground lease. Therefore,
these sales transactions would not be comparable to the hypothetical condition that the property rights being
appraised are the leasehold interest without the resale and other restrictions on which Fannie Mae requires the
appraisal of the subject property to be based. See B4-1.3-08, Comparable Sales, for general requirements
regarding comparable selection.
Determining the Capitalization Rate
When the community has an active real estate market that includes sales of properties owned as fee simple
estates and sales of properties subject to leasehold estates other than those held by community land trusts, the
appraiser can use the most direct method for determining the capitalization rate, extracting it from the market
activity. To extract the capitalization rate, the appraiser must divide the annual ground rent for the properties
subject to leasehold estates by the diﬀerence in the sales prices for the comparable sales of properties owned
as fee simple estates and the comparable sales of properties subject to leasehold estates.
If there are no available comparable sales of properties subject to leasehold estates other than those held by a
community land trust, the appraiser must develop a capitalization rate by comparing alternative low-risk
investment rates, such as the rates for long-term bonds, and selecting a rate that best reﬂects a “riskless”
(safe) rate.
Determining the Leasehold Value
To determine the leasehold value of the subject property, the appraiser must ﬁrst convert the annual income
from the community land trust’s ground lease into a leased fee value by dividing the income by the market-
derived capitalization rate. The appraiser must then reduce the estimated fee simple value of the subject
property by this leased fee value to arrive at their opinion of the leasehold value of the subject property.
For example, assume that the annual ground rent from the community land trust’s ground lease is $300, the
market-derived capitalization rate is 5.75%, and the estimated fee simple value of the subject property is
$100,000:
$300 annual rent/5.75% capitalization rate = $5,217.39 (rounded to $5,200)
$100,000 fee simple value – $5,200 leased fee value = $94,800 (leasehold value)
Addendum to the Appraisal Report
Because Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms do not include space to provide all of the details required for
appraising a property subject to a leasehold held by a community land trust, the appraiser must attach an
addendum to the appraisal report to provide any information that cannot otherwise be presented on the
appraisal report form. As previously mentioned, the appraiser must check the box “as is” and include in the
Published June 3, 2026
608
addendum the development of the capitalization rate and an expanded discussion of the comparable sales used
and considered. The addendum must also include the following statement:
“This appraisal is made on the basis of the hypothetical condition that the property rights being appraised are
the leasehold interest without resale and other restrictions that are removed by the Community Land Trust
Ground Lease Rider.”
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
B4-1.4-07, Mixed-Use Property Appraisal Requirements (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on special appraisal considerations for mixed-use properties, including:
Overview
Appraisal Requirements for Mixed-Use Properties
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes mortgage loans secured by properties that have a business use in addition
to their residential use provided that special eligibility criteria are met. These business uses can include, but are
not limited to, properties with space set aside for day care facilities, beauty or barber shops, or doctor’s oﬃces.
For eligibility criteria, see B2-3-04, Special Property Eligibility Considerations.
Appraisal Requirements for Mixed-Use Properties
The appraisal requirements for mixed-use properties must