SECTION: B4-1.3-11
TITLE: Valuation Analysis and Reconciliation
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 606-607
---
Published June 3, 2026
588
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.3-11, Valuation Analysis and Reconciliation (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the valuation analysis and ﬁnal reconciliation, including:
Overview
Reconciliation
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The valuation sections of Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms enable an appraiser to develop and report, in a
concise format, an adequately supported opinion of market value based on the cost, sales comparison, and
income approaches to value, as applicable. If the appraiser believes that additional information needs to be
provided because of the uniqueness of the property or some other condition, they should provide additional
supporting data in an addendum to the appraisal report form.
Reconciliation
In the Reconciliation section of the appraisal report form, the appraiser considers the reliability and applicability
of each of the approaches to value that was utilized in the appraisal report. After consideration of each of
the approaches to value, the appraiser will provide their ﬁnal value opinion. In the Reconciliation section,
appraisers must
reconcile the reasonableness and reliability of each applicable approach to value,
reconcile the reasonableness and validity of the indicated values,
reconcile the reasonableness of available data, and
select and report the approach or approaches that were given the most weight.
The reconciliation is based on the appraiser’s analysis of the results developed as part of the valuation process
and must never be an averaging technique with the exception of the use of a weighted average technique that
Published June 3, 2026
589
includes proper explanation. The ﬁnal reconciled indicated value must be within the range of the values
indicated by the Approaches used in the appraisal report form.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.3-12, Appraisal Quality Matters (09/03/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on appraisal quality matters, including:
Changes to the Appraised Value
Guidance on Addressing Appraisal Deﬁciencies
Lender Requirements
Fannie Mae’s Referrals to State Appraiser Boards
Refusal to Accept Appraisals from Speciﬁc Appraisers
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Changes to the Appraised Value
The lender is responsible for conﬁrming that appraisal reports are complete and that any changes to the reports
are made by the appraiser that originally completed the report. If the lender has concerns with any aspect of
the appraisal that result in questions about the reliability of the opinion of market value, the lender must
attempt to resolve its concerns with the appraiser that originally prepared the report. If the lender is unable to
resolve its concerns with the appraiser, the lender must obtain a replacement report prior to making a ﬁnal
underwriting decision on the loan. Any request for a change in the opinion of market value must be based on
material and substantive issues and must not be made solely on the basis that the opinion of market value as
indicated in the appraisal report does not support the proposed loan amount. For information concerning the