SECTION: B4-1.3-10
TITLE: Cost and Income Approach to Value
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 604-606
---
Published June 3, 2026
586
appraisal report form between the Sales or Financing Concessions and the Condition line items. A statement
only recognizing that an adjustment has been made is not acceptable. When appropriate, the appraiser’s
analysis should also include fact-based comments about a current contract, oﬀering, or listing for the subject or
comparable sales, current ownership, and recent prior sales or transfers. Additionally, the appraiser’s comments
must reﬂect his or her reconciliation of the adjusted (or indicated) values for the comparable sales and identify
why the sale(s) were given the most weight in arriving at the indicated value for the subject property. It should
be noted that the indicated value in the Sales Comparison Approach must be within the range of the adjusted
sales price of the comparables that are reported in the appraisal.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-08 December 11, 2024
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.3-10, Cost and Income Approach to Value (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the cost approach and the income approach, including:
Cost Approach to Value
Income Approach to Value
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Cost Approach to Value
Published June 3, 2026
587
Fannie Mae does not require the cost approach to value except for the valuation of manufactured homes.
However, USPAP requires the appraiser to develop and report the result of any approach to value that is
necessary for credible assignment results. For example, when appraising proposed or newly constructed
properties, if the appraiser believes the cost approach is necessary for credible assignment results, then the
cost approach must be provided. Appraisals that rely solely on the cost approach as an indicator of market
value are not acceptable.
The cost approach to value assumes that a potential purchaser will consider building a substitute residence that
has the same use as the property being appraised. This approach, then, measures value as a cost of production.
It may be appropriate to use the cost approach when appraising new or proposed construction, property that is
undergoing renovation, unique property, or property that features functional depreciation, to support the sales
comparison approach analysis. The reliability of the cost approach depends on valid reproduction cost
estimates, proper depreciation estimates, and accurate site values.
If the appraiser has completed the cost approach, the lender must thoroughly review the information provided
to conﬁrm that the appraiser’s analysis and comments for the cost approach to value are consistent with
comments and adjustments mentioned elsewhere in the appraisal report. For example, if the neighborhood or
site description reveals that the property backs up to a shopping center, lenders should expect to see an
amount indicated for external depreciation in the cost approach. Or, if the improvement analysis indicates that
it is necessary to go through one bedroom to get to another bedroom, lenders should expect to see an amount
indicated for functional depreciation.
Income Approach to Value
The income approach to value is based on the assumption that market value is related to the market rent or
income that a property can be expected to earn. The income approach to value is required in the valuation of
two-unit to four-unit properties and may be appropriate in neighborhoods that consist of one-unit properties
when there is a substantial rental market. The income approach to value may not be appropriate in areas that
consist mostly of owner-occupied properties because adequate rental data does not exist for those areas.
However, USPAP requires the appraiser to develop and report the result of any approach to value that is
necessary for credible assignment results. If the appraiser believes the income approach is necessary for
credible assignment results, then the income approach must be included. Appraisals that rely solely on the
income approach as an indicator of market value are not acceptable.
When the income approach to value is used, the appraisal report must include the supporting comparable rental
and sales data, and the calculations used to determine the gross rent multiplier. If the appraiser has completed
the income approach, the lender must thoroughly review the information provided to conﬁrm that the
appraiser’s analysis and comments for the income approach are consistent with comments mentioned
elsewhere in the report.
The lender must validate these approaches to value in the appraisal report and comply with B4-1.1-04,
Unacceptable Appraisal Practices.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
588
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.3-11, Valuation Analysis and Reconciliation (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the valuation analysis and ﬁnal reconciliation, including:
Overview
Reconciliation
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The valuation sections of Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms enable an appraiser to develop and report, in a
concise format, an adequately supported opinion of market value based on the cost, sales comparison, and
income approaches to value, as applicable. If the appraiser believes that additional information needs to be
provided because of the uniqueness of the property or some other condition, they should provide additional
supporting data in an addendum to the appraisal report form.
Reconciliation
In the Reconciliation section of the appraisal report form, the appraiser considers the reliability and applicability
of each of the approaches to value that was utilized in the appraisal report. After consideration of each of
the approaches to value, the appraiser will provide their ﬁnal value opinion. In the Reconciliation section,
appraisers must
reconcile the reasonableness and reliability of each applicable approach to value,
reconcile the reasonableness and validity of the indicated values,
reconcile the reasonableness of available data, and
select and report the approach or approaches that were given the most weight.
The reconciliation is based on the appraiser’s analysis of the results developed as part of the valuation process
and must never be an averaging technique with the exception of the use of a weighted average technique that