SECTION: B4-1.3-07
TITLE: Sales Comparison Approach Section of the Appraisal Report
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 595-597
---
Published June 3, 2026
577
If the appraisal indicates evidence of infestation (such as, wood-boring insects), dampness, or abnormal
settlement, the appraisal must comment on the eﬀect on the value and marketability of the subject property.
The lender must either provide satisfactory evidence that the condition was corrected or submit a professionally
prepared report indicating, based on an inspection of the property, that the condition does not pose any threat
of structural damage to the improvements. The appraisal should be made "subject to" repairs or alternations, or
"subject to" an inspection by a qualiﬁed professional.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
 
B4-1.3-07, Sales Comparison Approach Section of the Appraisal
Report (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the Sales Comparison Approach section of the appraisal report
form, including:
Overview
Data and Veriﬁcation Sources of Comparable Sales
Prior Sales History of the Subject and Comparable Sales
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The sales comparison approach to value is an analysis of comparable sales, contract sales, and listings of
properties that are the most comparable to the subject property.
Published June 3, 2026
578
The appraiser’s analysis of a property must take into consideration all factors that have an eﬀect on value. The
appraiser must analyze all closed sales, contract sales, and oﬀerings or listings of properties that are the most
comparable to the subject property in order to identify any signiﬁcant diﬀerences or elements of comparison
that could aﬀect their opinion of value for the subject property as of the eﬀective date of the appraisal report.
This is particularly important in changing (increasing or declining values) markets. Analyzing closed sales,
contract sales, and oﬀerings or listings is an important analysis in any market and will result in more accurate
reporting on market conditions, including trends that indicate that sale prices for contract sales and asking
prices for recent oﬀerings or listings have changed. (Also see B4-1.3-03, Neighborhood Section of the Appraisal
Report, for information regarding Trend of Neighborhood Property Values, Demand/Supply, and Marketing
Time.)
Data and Veriﬁcation Sources of Comparable Sales
Data and veriﬁcation source(s) for each comparable sale must be reported on the appraisal report form.
Examples of data sources include, but are not limited to, a multiple listing service, deed records, tax records,
real estate agents, builders, appraisers, appraiser’s ﬁles, and other third party sources and vendors. The
appraiser must state the speciﬁc data source (such as tax records or deed records), and refrain from using
broad categories, such as “public records.” Data source(s) must be reliable sources for the area where the
subject property is located.
Examples of veriﬁcation sources include, but are not limited to, the buyer, seller, listing agent, selling agent,
and closing documents in certain situations. Regardless of the source(s) used, there must be suﬃcient data to
understand the conditions of sale, existence of ﬁnancing concessions, physical characteristics of the subject
property, and whether it was an arms-length transaction.
It is acceptable to obtain comparable sales data from parties that have a ﬁnancial interest in either the sale or
ﬁnancing of the subject property; however, the appraiser must verify the data with a party that does not have a
ﬁnancial interest in the subject transaction. For example, if the real estate agent of the subject property has
provided comparable sales data, that information must be veriﬁed through another disinterested source.
Prior Sales History of the Subject and Comparable Sales
Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms require the appraiser to report the three year subject property and twelve
month comparable sales history.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Published June 3, 2026
579
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
 
B4-1.3-08, Comparable Sales (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on selection of comparable sales, including:
Selection of Comparable Sales
Minimum Number of Comparable Sales
Age of the Comparable Sales
Additional Requirements for New (or Recently Converted) Condos, Subdivisions, or PUDS
Rural Properties
Use of Foreclosures and Short Sales
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Selection of Comparable Sales
The appraiser is responsible for determining which comparables are the best and most appropriate for the
assignment. Fannie Mae expects the appraiser to account for all factors that aﬀect value when completing the
analysis. Comparable sales should have similar physical and legal characteristics when compared to the subject
property. These characteristics include, but are not limited to, site, room count, ﬁnished area, style, and
condition. External factors, including Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) designated ﬂood zone,
should be given consideration when selecting comparables.
When choosing comparable sales, the appraiser should examine the market area of the subject property, assess
its characteristics, and identify similar comparable sales. Market area is deﬁned as the geographic region, for a
subject property, from which most demand comes and in which most of the competition is located. This does
not mean comparable sales must be identical to the subject property, but instead should be competitive and
appeal to the same market participants that would also consider purchasing the subject property. If the
available comparable sales are not similar, the appraiser needs to decide whether an expansion of the market
area search is appropriate. If this occurs, the appraiser must provide commentary to explain the rationale for
selecting comparable sales outside the subject's market area and make location adjustments if warranted.
Comparable sales from within the same market area (including subdivision or project) as the subject property
should be used when possible and must be used in certain instances (see below). Sale activity from within the
neighborhood is the best indicator of value as sales prices of comparable properties from the same location
should reﬂect the same positive and negative location characteristics.
Fannie Mae does allow for the use of comparable sales located in competing market areas, as these may simply
be the best comparables available and the most appropriate for the appraiser’s analysis. If this situation arises,