SECTION: B4-1.4-10
TITLE: Value Acceptance
EFFECTIVE: 06/03/2026
PAGES: 631-634
---
Published June 3, 2026
613
Some jurisdictions have passed legislation that creates community facilities districts and permits them to levy a
special tax to fund the capital costs of a wide variety of public improvements, as well as the ongoing operation
and maintenance costs of a limited number of public services. Proceeds from the special tax are used to support
the sale of tax-exempt bonds for the various capital improvements that are allowed under the legislation,
including but not limited to, roads, sewer services, schools, police and ﬁre protection services, and libraries.
The assessment that will be used to repay the tax-exempt bonds becomes an ongoing responsibility of the
property owner, similar to state and local property taxes. The assessment lien and the obligation to pay the
assessment passes with the title to the property when ownership of the property is transferred.
Such legislation generally requires full disclosure of the special assessment to any purchaser of a property
located in a community facilities district. Therefore, a lender originating mortgages in community facilities
districts should disclose to the appraiser any information that it becomes aware of regarding special
assessments on a given property.
Appraisal Requirements for Properties Located in Community Facilities Districts
Appraisers must be aware of whether the subject property and the comparables are located within or aﬀected
by a community facilities district because properties subject to an assessment by one of these districts often
compete against properties that are either subject to a signiﬁcantly diﬀerent assessment or no assessment at
all. Appraisers must consider the reaction of the market, if any, to the assessment for the applicable community
facilities district by analyzing similarly aﬀected comparable sales in their analysis, and should note the eﬀect of
the assessment in the appraisal report.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
B4-1.4-10, Value Acceptance (06/03/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information about value acceptance, including:
Overview
Prior Appraisal Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
614
Eligible Transactions
Ineligible Transactions
Representations and Warranties
Exercising Value Acceptance
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
For certain loan caseﬁles, DU oﬀers value acceptance, in which case an appraisal is not required. For loan
caseﬁles that are not eligible for value acceptance, DU will require an appraisal reported on the appropriate
appraisal report form for the type of property being appraised.
Prior Appraisal Requirements
For value acceptance to be considered, generally a prior appraisal must be found for the subject property in
Fannie Mae’s Collateral Underwriter (CU) data. When required, DU will compare the address for the subject
property to the property addresses found in CU. DU will use the information from the prior appraisal to
determine if the loan caseﬁle is eligible for value acceptance. In some cases, the prior appraisal may not be
acceptable. For example, if a CU “Overvaluation Flag” was issued on the prior appraisal, or the appraisal could
not be scored, that prior appraisal will not be used and value acceptance will not be oﬀered on the new loan
caseﬁle.
Eligible Transactions
A value acceptance oﬀer will be considered for the following transactions:
one-unit properties, including condos;
principal residence and second home transactions;
investment property reﬁnance transactions;
certain purchase, limited cash-out, and cash-out reﬁnance transactions; and
DU loan caseﬁles that receive an Approve/Eligible recommendation.
Ineligible Transactions
The following transactions are not eligible for a value acceptance oﬀer:
two- to four-unit properties;
co-op units and manufactured homes;
proposed construction;
construction-to-permanent loans (single-close and two-close);
HomeStyle Renovation and HomeStyle Refresh loans;
leasehold properties;
Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans;
community land trusts or other properties with resale price restrictions, which include loan caseﬁles using
Published June 3, 2026
615
the Aﬀordable LTV feature;
transactions where either the purchase price or estimated value provided to DU is $1,000,000 or more;
transactions using gifts of equity;
DU loan caseﬁles that receive an Ineligible recommendation; and
manually underwritten loans.
Note: DU may oﬀer value acceptance on a recently constructed property (i.e., new construction) when
there is an existing “as is” prior appraisal for the subject property. For example, an appraisal of the
subject property may have been performed for a diﬀerent lender or borrower, but that loan did not
close. The lender may execute the value acceptance oﬀer when the loan meets all other eligibility
criteria for the transaction.
Furthermore, the lender may not exercise a value acceptance oﬀer and must order an appraisal if one or more
of the following applies:
DU was unable to identify ineligible criteria in the list above (for example, Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans);
the lender is required by law to obtain an appraisal (see A3-2-01, Compliance With Laws);
the lender is using rental income from the subject property to qualify the borrower; or
the lender believes that an appraisal is warranted based on additional information the lender has about
the property or subsequent events.
Note: The lender may not exercise a value acceptance oﬀer if an appraisal is obtained for the
transaction.
See  B5-7-02, High LTV Reﬁnance Underwriting, Documentation, and Collateral Requirements for the New Loan
for additional information about high LTV reﬁnance value acceptance.
Representations and Warranties
When a loan caseﬁle is eligible for value acceptance and the oﬀer is exercised by the lender, Fannie Mae
accepts the value estimate submitted by the lender as the value for the subject property. See A2-2-06,
Representations and Warranties on Property Value for more information.
Exercising Value Acceptance
A lender may only exercise value acceptance if
the ﬁnal submission of the loan caseﬁle to DU resulted in a value acceptance oﬀer,
an appraisal is not obtained for the transaction, and
the value acceptance oﬀer is not more than four months old on the date of the note and the mortgage.
Lenders that elect to exercise value acceptance must include SFC 801 at delivery. Lenders may not adversely
select against Fannie Mae in determining which value acceptance oﬀers to accept. Fannie Mae may monitor the
lender’s exercise of value acceptance oﬀers and delivery of loans to Fannie Mae, and may take appropriate
measures if adverse selection is identiﬁed.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Published June 3, 2026
616
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-06 June 03, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B4-1.4-11, Value Acceptance + Property Data (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on value acceptance + property data including:
Overview
Eligible Transactions
Ineligible Transactions
Representations and Warranties
Property Data Collection
Property Data Collector
Exercising Value Acceptance + Property Data
Property Data Collection with Needed Repairs or Completion Veriﬁcation
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy