SECTION: B4-1.3-05
TITLE: Improvements Section of the Appraisal Report
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 580-587
---
Published June 3, 2026
562
Note: If the property is located within a state that has statutory provisions that deﬁne the
responsibilities of property owners for the maintenance and repair of a private street, no separate
agreement or covenant is required.
If the property is not located in a state that imposes statutory requirements for maintenance, and either there is
no agreement or covenant for maintenance of the street, or an agreement or covenant exists but does not meet
the requirements listed above, the lender may still sell the loan. However, the lender is required to indemnify
Fannie Mae (as described in A2-1-03, Indemniﬁcation for Losses) against all losses incurred by Fannie Mae as a
result of the physical condition of the street or in order to establish and/or retain access to the street.
Special Flood Hazard Areas
Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms provide an area for the appraiser to indicate whether the property is
located in a Special Flood Hazard Area that is identiﬁed on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s
(FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Maps. The appraiser must also indicate the speciﬁc FEMA ﬂood zone and the map
number and its eﬀective date. For additional information concerning Fannie Mae’s policies on ﬂood insurance,
see B7-3-06, Flood Insurance Requirements for All Property Types.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
B4-1.3-05, Improvements Section of the Appraisal Report
(06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the Improvements section of the appraisal report form, including:
Overview
Conformity of Improvements to Neighborhood
Unique Housing Types
Actual and Eﬀective Ages
Remaining Economic Life
Energy Eﬃcient Improvements
Published June 3, 2026
563
Layout and Floor Plans
Above- and Below-Grade Area(s)
Gross Building Area
Accessory Dwelling Units
Additions without Permits
Properties with Outbuildings
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The appraisal must provide a clear, detailed, and accurate description of the improvements. The description
must be as speciﬁc as possible, commenting on such things as needed repairs, additional features, and
modernization, and should provide supporting addenda, if necessary. If the subject property has an accessory
dwelling unit, the appraisal should describe it.
Conformity of Improvements to Neighborhood
The improvements should conform to the neighborhood in terms of age, type, design, and materials used for
their construction. If there is market resistance to a property because its improvements are not compatible with
the neighborhood or with the requirements of the competitive market because of adequacy of plumbing,
heating, or electrical services; design; quality; size; condition; or any other reason directly related to market
demand, the appraiser must address the impact to the value and marketability of the subject property.
However, the lender should be aware that many older neighborhoods have favorable heterogeneity in
architectural styles, land use, and age of housing. For example, older neighborhoods are especially likely to
have been developed through custom building. This variety may be a positive marketing factor.
Unique Housing Types
In the appraisal and appraisal report review processes, special consideration must be given to properties that
represent unique housing for the subject neighborhood. Loans secured by unique or nontraditional types of
housing, including, but not limited to, earth houses, geodesic domes, and log houses, are eligible for sale to
Fannie Mae provided the appraiser has adequate information to develop a reliable opinion of market value. It is
not necessary for one or more of the comparable sales to be of the same design and appeal as the property that
is being appraised, although appraisal accuracy is enhanced by using comparable sales that are the most
similar to the subject property. On a case-by-case basis, both the appraiser and the underwriter must
independently determine whether there is suﬃcient information available to develop a reliable opinion of
market value. This will depend on the extent of the diﬀerences between the special or unique property and the
more traditional types of houses in the neighborhood and the number of such properties that have already been
sold in the neighborhood.
A 3D printed home with a traditional design and constructed using conventional building materials is not
considered a unique or nontraditional housing type. Lenders should follow the standard eligibility and
comparable sales selection requirements for site-built housing. See  B4-1.3-08, Comparable Sales and 
B4-1.3-09, Adjustments to Comparable Sales, for additional information. To identify this construction method,
the appraiser must enter "3D Printed Home" in the bottom free-form description ﬁeld of the Sales Comparison
Published June 3, 2026
564
Approach grid in the appraisal for the subject property and comparable sales (if applicable).
When appraising unique properties,
if the appraiser cannot locate recent comparable sales of the same design and appeal, but is able to
determine sound adjustments for the diﬀerences between the comparables that are available and the
subject property and demonstrate the marketability of the property based on older comparable sales,
comparable sales in competing neighborhoods, the existence of similar properties in the market area,
and any other reliable market data, the property is acceptable as security in a sale of the loan to Fannie
Mae;
if the appraiser is not able to ﬁnd any evidence of market acceptance, and the characteristics of the
property are so signiﬁcantly diﬀerent that they cannot establish a reliable opinion of market value, the
property is not acceptable as security in a sale of the loan to Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae does not specify minimum square footage or ﬁnished area requirements for properties with the
exception of manufactured housing (see B4-1.4-01, Factory-Built Housing: Manufactured Housing). There should
be comparables of similar size to the subject property to support the general acceptability of a particular
property type.
Actual and Eﬀective Ages
Fannie Mae does not place a restriction on the actual age of the dwelling. Older dwellings that meet Fannie
Mae’s general requirements are acceptable. Improvements for all properties must be of the quality and
condition that will be acceptable to typical purchasers in the subject neighborhood.
The relationship between the actual and eﬀective ages of the property is a good indication of its condition. A
property that has been well-maintained generally will have an eﬀective age somewhat lower than its actual age.
On the other hand, a property that has an eﬀective age higher than its actual age probably has not been well-
maintained or may have a particular physical problem. In such cases, the lender should pay particular attention
to the condition of the subject property in its review of any appraisal report. When the appraiser makes
adjustments for the “Year Built,” they must explain the adjustments that were made.
Remaining Economic Life
Fannie Mae does not have any requirements related to the remaining economic life of the property. However,
related property deﬁciencies must be discussed in the sections of the appraisal report that address the
improvements analysis and comments on the condition of the property.
Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms are designed to meet the needs of several diﬀerent user groups;
consequently, the report forms address the remaining economic life for the property being appraised. However,
appraisers are not required to report this information. If appraisers report this information, lenders do not need
to consider remaining economic life because any related property deﬁciencies will be discussed in the sections
of the appraisal report that address the improvements analysis and comments on the condition of the property.
Energy Eﬃcient Improvements
An energy-eﬃcient property is one that uses resource-eﬀective design, materials, building systems, and site
Published June 3, 2026
565
orientation to conserve nonrenewable fuels.
Special energy-saving items must be recognized in the appraisal process and noted on the appraisal report
form. For example, when completing the appraisal report (Form 1004), special energy-eﬃcient items are to be
addressed in the Improvements section in the Additional features ﬁeld. The nature of these items and their
contribution to value will vary throughout the country because of climactic conditions, diﬀerences in utility
costs, and overall market reaction to the cost of the feature. Some examples of special energy-eﬃcient features
may include, but are not limited to, energy eﬃcient ratings or certiﬁcations, programmable thermostats, solar
photovoltaic systems, solar panels, low-e windows, insulated ducts, and tank-less water heaters.
Appraisers must compare energy-eﬃcient features of the subject property to those of comparable properties in
the Sales Comparison Approach adjustment grid. Appraisers may augment the Sales Comparison Approach in
evaluating any impact (either positive or negative) to the value of energy eﬃciency improvements with either
the income or cost approach; however, appraisers cannot adjust the value of the property
on a mechanical dollar-for-dollar basis based on equipment and installation cost, or the discounted
present value of expected cost savings of the equipment over the useful life of the equipment; or
solely based on the cost or income approach. The appraiser must also analyze the market reaction to the
energy eﬃcient feature.
Solar panels that are leased from or owned by a third party under a power purchase agreement or other similar
ﬁnancing arrangement must be considered personal property and not be included in the appraised value of the
property. See B2-3-04, Special Property Eligibility Considerations, for additional eligibility requirements for
properties with solar panels.
Layout and Floor Plans
Dwellings with unusual layouts and ﬂoor plans generally have limited market appeal. A review of the room list
and ﬂoor plan for the dwelling unit may indicate an unusual layout, such as bedrooms on a level with no bath, or
a kitchen on a diﬀerent level from the dining room. If the appraiser indicates that such inadequacies will result
in market resistance to the subject property, they must make appropriate adjustments to reﬂect this in the
overall analysis. However, if market acceptance can be demonstrated through the use of comparable sales with
the same inadequacies, no adjustments are required.
Above- and Below-Grade Area(s)
Appraisers must follow the American National Standard Institute (ANSI) Square Footage-Method for Calculating:
ANSI® Z765-2021 ("ANSI standard") when measuring, calculating and reporting the above- and below-grade
square footage(s). This includes ﬁnished and unﬁnished area(s) of the subject for attached and detached single-
family dwellings, including manufactured homes. This is applicable to all hybrid appraisals and appraisals
requiring interior and exterior inspections. If state law or a regulatory requirement mandates adherence to a
diﬀerent measurement standard, the appraisal report must note the standard required and explain how it was
applied. 
Note: The ANSI standard cannot be used to measure apartment/multifamily buildings; however, it
must be used in all other cases for single-family dwellings including townhomes, rowhouses, and
detached dwellings. When measuring apartment unit in a condo or co-op project building, the
appraiser must use interior perimeter measurements. 
Published June 3, 2026
566
The appraiser must be consistent when reporting the ﬁnished above-grade square footage, below-grade square
footage, and room count. The need for consistency also applies from report to report. For example, when using
the same transaction as a comparable sale in multiple reports, the room count, and square footage(s) must not
change.
The square footage of any nonstandard ﬁnished area(s) (NSFA) such as ﬁnished area(s) with direct interior
access from within the dwelling not conforming to the ANSI ceiling height requirements or accessed through
unﬁnished area(s) (e.g. an unﬁnished hallway, a room, a staircase, etc.) must be calculated and reported
separately in accordance with the ANSI standard. Additionally, the appraiser must provide the reason(s) this
area does not comply with the ANSI standard and also acknowledge any contribution of the additional square
footage. Appraisers should include rooms located above-grade in nonstandard ﬁnished areas in the room
count(s) (Total Rooms, Bedrooms, Bath(s)) in the Improvements section and in the Sale Comparison Approach
grid of the appraisal report to comply with Uniform Appraisal Dataset requirements. All other areas of the
dwelling that do not conform with ANSI deﬁnition of ﬁnished area is reported as unﬁnished area. 
Fannie Mae considers a level to be below-grade if any portion of it is below-grade, regardless of the quality of its
ﬁnish or the window area of any room. Therefore, a walk-out partially below-grade area with ﬁnished rooms
would not be included in the above-grade square footage or room count. Rooms that are not included in the
above-grade room count may add substantially to the value of a property, particularly when the quality of the
ﬁnish is high. For that reason, the appraiser should report below-grade areas separately and make appropriate
adjustments for them on the Basement & Finished Rooms Below-Grade line in the Sales Comparison Approach
adjustment grid.
Above-grade ﬁnished area that is not designated as an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) but is attached to the
dwelling with no direct interior access is reported separately as noncontinuous ﬁnished area. This area and any
detached structure(s) with ﬁnished area(s) must be reported on a diﬀerent line in the adjustment grid and not
included as part of the subject's reported ﬁnished area(s), nonstandard ﬁnished area(s), or room counts. If there
are multiple non-continuous areas, then report the combined square footage in one line of the Sales Comparison
grid.
When using sketching or 3D scanning software, the resulting output must conform to the ANSI standard. See
Exhibits for Appraisals in B4-1.2-01, Appraisal Report Forms and Exhibits for additional information on footprint
sketches and ﬂoor plans.
Gross Building Area
The gross building area
is the total ﬁnished area including any interior common areas, such as stairways and hallways of the
improvements based on exterior measurements;
is the most common comparison for two- to four-unit properties;
must be consistently developed for the subject property and all comparables used in the appraisal;
must include all ﬁnished above-grade and below-grade living areas, counting all interior common areas
such as stairways, hallways, storage rooms; and
cannot count exterior common areas, such as open stairways.
Fannie Mae will accept the use of other comparisons for two- to four-unit properties, such as the total above-
grade and below-grade areas discussed in the Above- and Below-Grade Area(s), provided the appraiser
Published June 3, 2026
567
explains the reasons they did not use a gross building area comparison, and
clearly describes the comparisons that were made.
Accessory Dwelling Units
An ADU is generally an additional living area independent of the primary dwelling that may have been added to,
created within, or detached from the primary dwelling. The ADU must have basic requirements for living,
sleeping, cooking, and bathroom facilities on the same parcel as the primary dwelling. See B2-3-04, Special
Property Eligibility Considerations, for complete ADU eligibility requirements.
When reporting the living area of an ADU, it should not be included with the ﬁnished above-grade square
footage calculation of the primary dwelling. It should be reported and adjusted for on a separate line in the grid,
unless the ADU is contained within or part of the primary dwelling with interior access and above grade. If a
standalone structure does not meet the ADU minimum requirements, it should be treated as any other ancillary
structure and included as a separate line item in the sales comparison approach then adjusted based on its
contributory value to the subject property.
Whether a property is deﬁned as a one-unit property with an ADU or a two- to four-unit property will be based
on the characteristics of the property, which may include, but are not limited to, the existence of separate utility
meter(s), a unique postal address, and whether the unit can be legally rented. The appraiser must determine
compliance with this deﬁnition as part of the analysis in the Highest and Best Use section of the appraisal. When
there is an ADU, the appraisal report must include a description of the ADU and analysis of any eﬀect it has on
the value or marketability of the subject property. The appraisal report must demonstrate that the
improvements are acceptable for the market. An aged settled sale will qualify as a comparable, and an active
listing or under contract sale will qualify as a supplemental exhibit to show marketability.
Zoning for an ADU
If it is determined that the property contains an ADU that is not allowed under zoning (where an ADU is not
allowed under any circumstance), the property is eligible under the following additional conditions:
The lender conﬁrms that the existence will not jeopardize any future property insurance claim that might
need to be ﬁled for the property.
The illegal use conforms to the subject neighborhood and to the market.
The property is appraised based upon its current use.
The appraisal report states that the improvements represent a use that does not comply with zoning
(“illegal” use).
The appraisal report demonstrates that the improvements are typical for the market through an analysis
of at least two comparable sales with the same non-compliant zoning use. Aged settled sale(s) with the
same non-compliant zoning use are acceptable if recent sales are not available. At a minimum, the
appraisal report must include a total of three settled sales.
See B4-1.3-04, Site Section of the Appraisal Report, for subject property zoning information.
Additions without Permits
If the appraiser identiﬁes an addition(s) that does not have the required permit, the appraiser must comment on
the quality and appearance of the work and its impact, if any, on the market value of the subject property.
Published June 3, 2026
568
Properties with Outbuildings
A lender must give properties with outbuildings special consideration in the appraisal report review to ensure
that the property is residential in nature. Descriptions of the outbuildings should be reported in the
Improvements and Sales Comparison Approach sections of the appraisal report form.
Type of Outbuilding Acceptability
Minimal outbuildings, such as small barns or
stables, that are of relatively insigniﬁcant value in
relation to the total appraised value of the subject
property.
The appraiser must demonstrate through the use of
comparable sales with similar amenities that the
improvements are typical of other residential
properties in the subject area for which an active,
viable residential market exists.
An atypical minimal outbuilding. The property is acceptable provided the appraiser’s
analysis reﬂects little or no contributory value for it.
Signiﬁcant outbuildings, such as silos, large
barns, storage areas, or facilities for farm-type
animals.
The presence of the outbuildings may indicate that
the property is agricultural in nature. The lender
must determine whether the property is residential
in nature, regardless of whether the appraiser
assigns value to the outbuildings.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-08 September 06, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-03 April 06, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Published June 3, 2026
569
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
 
B4-1.3-06, Property Condition and Quality of Construction of the
Improvements (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on property condition and quality of construction, including:
Appraiser Selection of Condition, Quality, and other Characteristic Ratings
Property Condition
Property Condition Ratings
Identifying Property Condition
Deﬁnitions of Not Updated, Updated, and Remodeled
Appraisals Completed “As Is”
Quality of Construction Rating
Identifying Quality of Construction
Physical Deﬁciencies That Aﬀect Safety, Soundness, or Structural Integrity of the Subject Property
Infestation, Dampness, or Settlement
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Appraiser Selection of Condition, Quality, and other Characteristic Ratings
The condition and quality ratings must be based on a holistic view of the property and any improvements. When
selecting the condition and quality ratings, an appraiser must
consider all improvements to determine an overall condition and quality rating. The appraiser should
select the rating that best reﬂects the property as a whole and in its entirety.
describe the subject property as of the eﬀective date of the appraisal on an absolute basis, meaning the
property must be rated on its own merits. The rating should not be selected on a relative basis, meaning
it is not selected on how the property relates or compares to other properties in the neighborhood.
Additionally, the condition and quality ratings for comparable properties must be made on an absolute
basis (again, each comparative property on its own merits), not on a relative basis, and reﬂect the
property as of the date of sale of that comparable property.
Note: These requirements also apply to all other ratings or descriptions, including the View and