SECTION: B4-1.3-01
TITLE: Review of the Appraisal Report
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 569-570
---
Published June 3, 2026
551
B4-1.3-01, Review of the Appraisal Report (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the appraisal report, including:
Overview
Appraisal Report Analysis
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms and the appraisal review requirements for one- to four-unit properties have
been developed with the intent that the USPAP standards are followed and that Fannie Mae’s policies are
supportive of fair lending practices. This topic provides lender requirements related to the transaction details
and the property and appraisal eligibility analysis.
Appraisal Report Analysis
When an appraisal is obtained, the lender must analyze the
current contract for sale for purchase money transactions,
current oﬀering or listing for sale for both purchase and reﬁnance transactions when the home was listed
for sale,
comparable sales for both purchase and reﬁnance transactions, and
current ownership for the subject property (see B4-1.1-02, Lender Responsibilities, for further
information).
The lender is responsible for validating that
the property meets Fannie Mae’s eligibility criteria (see B2-3-01, General Property Eligibility, for eligibility
requirements);
the appraiser has provided an accurate and reliable opinion of value that reﬂects the market value,
condition, and marketability of the subject property in compliance with Fannie Mae’s Selling Guide
requirements. (See B4-1.3-12, Appraisal Quality Matters, for further information); and
the appraisal conforms with B4-1.1-04, Unacceptable Appraisal Practices.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
552
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.3-02, Subject and Contract Sections of the Appraisal Report
(06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on reviewing the Subject and Contract sections of the appraisal report form,
including:
Subject Section
Contract Section
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Subject Section
The appraiser must identify the subject property by its complete property address and legal description. The
appraiser must enter the physical property address, including the unit number for a condo, in a format that
conforms to the United States Postal Service (USPS) address standards in Publication 28 – Postal Addressing
Standards (pub28) for complete addresses. Address standards can be found at usps.com. The subject address
must be populated consistently throughout the form.
When the legal description is lengthy, the appraiser may attach the full legal description as an addendum to the
appraisal report. The appraiser must also identify the property rights to be appraised. (For eligibility
requirements, see B2-3-01, General Property Eligibility.)
Fannie Mae's appraisal report forms require the appraiser to research and identify whether the subject property
is currently for sale or if it has been oﬀered for sale in the 12 months prior to the eﬀective date of the appraisal
by selecting either the ‘Yes’ or the ‘No’ checkbox. If the answer is ‘No,’ the data source(s) used must be
provided. If the answer is ‘Yes,’ the appraiser must report on each occurrence or listing and provide the
following information:
oﬀering price(s),
oﬀering date(s), and
data source(s) used.
For example, if the subject property is currently listed for sale and was previously listed eight months ago, the