SECTION: B4-1.1-06
TITLE: Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) and the Uniform Collateral Data Portal (UCDP)
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 545-547
---
Published June 3, 2026
527
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
B4-1.1-06, Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) and the Uniform
Collateral Data Portal (UCDP) (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the Uniform Appraisal Dataset and the Uniform Collateral Data Portal,
including:
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD)
Uniform Collateral Data Portal (UCDP)
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD)
The UAD standardizes appraisal data elements for a subset of ﬁelds on speciﬁc appraisal report forms and
includes all data elements required to complete these forms. Fannie Mae requires that the following appraisal
report forms are completed utilizing Appendix D of the UAD Speciﬁcation when reporting the results of an
appraisal for a conventional loan:
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report ( Form 1004),
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report (Desktop) (Form 1004 Desktop)
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report (Hybrid) (Form 1004 Hybrid)
Individual Condominium Unit Appraisal Report ( Form 1073), and
Individual Condominium Unit Appraisal Report (Hybrid) (Form 1073 Hybrid).
Other appraisal report forms may be completed using the standards contained in the UAD Speciﬁcation to the
extent those standards are applicable to that particular form. Lenders may obtain the most recent version of
Appendix D of the Uniform Appraisal Dataset Speciﬁcation and additional information on Fannie Mae’s website. 
Published June 3, 2026
528
Uniform Collateral Data Portal (UCDP)
The UCDP is a portal through which lenders are required to electronically submit appraisal reports for
conventional loans sold to Fannie Mae. The following appraisal report forms including all exhibits, addenda, and
photographs, must be submitted through the UCDP and receive a “Successful” status from the UCDP prior to
sale of the loan to Fannie Mae:
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report ( Form 1004),
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report (Desktop) (Form 1004 Desktop),
Uniform Residential Appraisal Report (Hybrid) (Form 1004 Hybrid)
Manufactured Home Appraisal Report ( Form 1004C),
Small Residential Income Property Appraisal Report (Form 1025),
Individual Condominium Unit Appraisal Report ( Form 1073),
Individual Condominium Unit Appraisal Report (Hybrid) ( Form 1073 Hybrid), and
Individual Cooperative Interest Appraisal Report ( Form 2090).
If there are subsequent revisions to the appraisal report, the ﬁnal version of the report that was utilized in
making the underwriting decision must be submitted through the UCDP and receive a “Successful” status from
the UCDP prior to sale of the loan to Fannie Mae. When submitting an appraisal report through the UCDP,
lenders must ensure it is the unaltered report submitted by the identiﬁed appraiser.
Additionally, for loans that require an appraisal, lenders must ensure the appraised value as indicated on the
appraisal submitted to UCDP matches the appraised value as reported at sale of the loan. An exception is
allowed for this requirement when the appraisal used to underwrite the loan is a desk or ﬁeld review of an
existing appraisal because those types of reports cannot be submitted through the UCDP. In those instances,
the appraised value reported at sale of the loan will reﬂect the value as stated in the desk or ﬁeld review.
However, the original appraisal that was the subject of review must have been submitted to UCDP.
Appraisal report forms not listed above cannot be delivered through UCDP with the exception of the Appraisal
Update and/or Completion Certiﬁcate ( Form 1004D ), which is optional. Lenders must maintain the applicable
appraisal report and attachments in the loan ﬁle as part of the underwriting documents in accordance with
A2-4.1-02, Ownership and Retention of Loan Files and Records. Lenders may obtain detailed information on the
UCDP page on Fannie Mae’s website.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Published June 3, 2026
529
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-06 July 03, 2019
 
Section B4-1.2, Documentation Standards
B4-1.2-01, Appraisal Report Forms and Exhibits (09/03/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on appraisal report forms and exhibits, including:
Scope of Work
List of Appraisal Report Forms
Exhibits for Appraisals
Appraiser Certiﬁcations and Limiting Conditions
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Scope of Work
Appraisers must use the most recent version of the appraisal report forms and include any other information,
either as an attachment or addendum to the appraisal report form, needed to adequately support the opinion of
market value. Although the scope of work for the appraisal or the extent of the appraisal process is guided by
Fannie Mae’s appraisal report forms, the forms do not limit or control the appraisal process. The appraiser’s
analysis should go beyond any limitations of the forms, with additional comments and exhibits being used if
they are needed to adequately describe the subject property, document the analysis and valuation process, or
support the appraiser’s conclusions. The extent of the appraiser’s data collection, analysis, and reporting must
be determined by the complexity of the appraisal assignment.
List of Appraisal Report Forms
Appraisal reports must be completed on one of the following Fannie Mae appraisal forms.