SECTION: B4-1.4-09
TITLE: Special Assessment or Community Facilities Districts Appraisal Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 629-631
---
Published June 3, 2026
611
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcements SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
B4-1.4-09, Special Assessment or Community Facilities Districts
Appraisal Requirements (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on special appraisal considerations for properties in special assessment or
community facilities districts, including:
Overview
Lender Responsibilities Related to Special Assessment or Community Facilities Districts
Special Assessment Districts
Appraisal Requirements for Properties Located in Special Assessment Districts
Community Facilities Districts
Appraisal Requirements for Properties Located in Community Facilities Districts
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
Alternative methods for raising the capital necessary to satisfy utility and infrastructure requirements are
sometimes used in the development of new residential communities. In some instances, this involves the
creation of local districts called special assessment districts or community facilities districts that have the
authority to assess homeowners for the cost of developing utility services and various infrastructure facilities,
including, but not limited to, roads, sewer services, schools, police and ﬁre protection services, and libraries.
Lender Responsibilities Related to Special Assessment or Community Facilities
Published June 3, 2026
612
Districts
Fannie Mae expects the lender to know if a property is located in one of these districts and to be aware of the
eﬀect that assessments levied by the district could have on property values and the marketability of the subject
property. The lender’s appraiser, therefore, must give special consideration to the valuation of properties
located in these districts.
Special Assessment Districts
Special assessment districts, also called special tax districts or municipal utility districts, provide a speciﬁc
service to homeowners living in a designated area. They are most often established to provide water or other
utilities in areas that are not served by existing city or municipal utility services. The need for these districts
arises when an existing utility service does not have suﬃcient capacity, or may not ﬁnd it economically feasible
to provide services for newly created subdivisions that are located beyond its current operating area. State law
governing the establishment of special assessment districts varies greatly, as does the ﬁnancial strength of the
individual districts. These districts are granted the authority to assess owners of properties within their
boundaries for funds that will be used to cover their operating costs and debt service.
Special assessment districts that are established to serve newly developing subdivisions with utilities often base
their ﬁnancial plans and the amount of the assessment to be charged to each property owner on the expected
number of properties in the area to be served. The district then depends on the continuation of development to
maintain its budget expectations. If, for any reason, development stops short of the degree of development that
the district anticipated in preparing its budget, the district can become ﬁnancially distressed and may need to
impose an additional assessment on the existing homeowners.
Appraisal Requirements for Properties Located in Special Assessment Districts
The appraisal requirements for properties located in special assessment districts must
report any special assessments that aﬀect the property, and
note in the appraisal report if the special assessment district is experiencing ﬁnancial diﬃculty and that
the diﬃculty has an eﬀect on the value or marketability of the subject property.
To ensure that the reaction of the market to the potential liabilities that may arise within a ﬁnancially troubled
special assessment district is reﬂected in their analysis, the appraiser must consider current and expired listings
or properties for sale within the district and any pending contract sales and recent closed sales within the
district.
There may be some instances in which the ﬁnancial diﬃculty of a special assessment district is so severe that
its actual eﬀect on the value and marketability of a property is not measurable because there is no comparable
market data available to enable the appraiser to arrive at a reliable opinion of market value. When this is the
case, a mortgage secured by a property in that district will not be eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae until such
time that an active market develops that will enable the appraiser to demonstrate the value and marketability
of the subject property.
Community Facilities Districts
Published June 3, 2026
613
Some jurisdictions have passed legislation that creates community facilities districts and permits them to levy a
special tax to fund the capital costs of a wide variety of public improvements, as well as the ongoing operation
and maintenance costs of a limited number of public services. Proceeds from the special tax are used to support
the sale of tax-exempt bonds for the various capital improvements that are allowed under the legislation,
including but not limited to, roads, sewer services, schools, police and ﬁre protection services, and libraries.
The assessment that will be used to repay the tax-exempt bonds becomes an ongoing responsibility of the
property owner, similar to state and local property taxes. The assessment lien and the obligation to pay the
assessment passes with the title to the property when ownership of the property is transferred.
Such legislation generally requires full disclosure of the special assessment to any purchaser of a property
located in a community facilities district. Therefore, a lender originating mortgages in community facilities
districts should disclose to the appraiser any information that it becomes aware of regarding special
assessments on a given property.
Appraisal Requirements for Properties Located in Community Facilities Districts
Appraisers must be aware of whether the subject property and the comparables are located within or aﬀected
by a community facilities district because properties subject to an assessment by one of these districts often
compete against properties that are either subject to a signiﬁcantly diﬀerent assessment or no assessment at
all. Appraisers must consider the reaction of the market, if any, to the assessment for the applicable community
facilities district by analyzing similarly aﬀected comparable sales in their analysis, and should note the eﬀect of
the assessment in the appraisal report.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
B4-1.4-10, Value Acceptance (06/03/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information about value acceptance, including:
Overview
Prior Appraisal Requirements