SECTION: B4-1.1-01
TITLE: Definition of Market Value
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 534-535
---
Published June 3, 2026
516
Subpart B4, Underwriting Property
Introduction
This subpart contains property underwriting and appraisal requirements for conventional loans.
Chapter B4-1, Property Assessment and Valuation
Introduction
This chapter explains Fannie Mae’s property assessment and valuation requirements, including documentation,
appraisal and data collection requirements.
Section B4-1.1, General Appraisal Requirements
B4-1.1-01, Deﬁnition of Market Value (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the deﬁnition of market value.
Deﬁnition of Market Value
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Deﬁnition of Market Value
Market value is the most probable price that a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all
conditions requisite to a fair sale with, the buyer and seller, each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and
assuming the price is not aﬀected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this deﬁnition is the consummation of a sale as
of a speciﬁed date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:
buyer and seller are typically motivated;
both parties are well informed or well advised, and each acting in what they consider to be in their own
best interest;
a reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;
payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in terms of ﬁnancial arrangements comparable
thereto; and
Published June 3, 2026
517
the price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaﬀected by special or creative
ﬁnancing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.
Note: Adjustments to the comparables must be made for special or creative ﬁnancing or sales
concessions. No adjustments are necessary for costs that are normally paid by sellers as a result of
tradition or law in a market area; these costs are readily identiﬁable because the seller pays these
costs in virtually all sales transactions. Special or creative ﬁnancing adjustments can be made to the
comparable property by comparisons to ﬁnancing terms oﬀered by a third-party institutional lender
that is not already involved in the property or transaction. Any adjustment should not be calculated on
a mechanical dollar for dollar cost of the ﬁnancing or concession, but the dollar amount of any
adjustment should approximate the market’s reaction to the ﬁnancing or concessions based on the
appraiser’s judgment.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
B4-1.1-02, Lender Responsibilities (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on lender requirements, including:
Lender Responsibilities
Conﬁrmation and Documentation of the Current Owner
Objective and Unbiased Appraisals
Reporting Unfavorable Conditions
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lender Responsibilities
The lender is responsible for ensuring that the subject property provides adequate collateral for the mortgage.
For most loans, Fannie Mae requires that the lender obtain a signed and complete appraisal report that
accurately reﬂects the market value, condition, and marketability of the property. Some loans may be eligible
for a value acceptance option, and an appraisal is not required if the lender exercises the option and complies