SECTION: B4-2.2-05
TITLE: FHA-Approved Condo Review Eligibility
EFFECTIVE: 09/04/2018
PAGES: 690-691
---
Published June 3, 2026
672
Refer to the  Eligibility Matrix  for the maximum allowable CLTV and HCLTV ratios. (For example, a
mortgage loan for a unit in a PERS-approved project can have a CLTV ratio up to 105% if it meets
the Eligibility Matrix and Community Seconds requirements.)
1
The CLTV and HCLTV ratios in this column align with the maximum CLTV and HCLTV ratios that are
permitted for projects outside of Florida, as described in  B4-2.2-01, Limited Review Process.
2
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-02 March 02, 2022
 
B4-2.2-05, FHA-Approved Condo Review Eligibility (09/04/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information on FHA-approved condo review eligibility, including:
Overview
Project Requirements
Document Retention
Overview
Fannie Mae accepts delivery of FHA mortgage loans in FHA-approved condo projects that appear on the FHA-
approved condo list. For conventional mortgage loans, Fannie Mae will accept delivery of mortgages in
established projects on the FHA-approved list provided the approval was completed by FHA HUD Review and
Approval Process (HRAP) rather than through an FHA Direct Endorsement Lender Review and Approval Process
(DELRAP). FHA condo project approval is not acceptable for conventional mortgage loans secured by units in
new or newly converted condo projects.
Lenders may search for FHA-approved condo projects by location, name, or project status online at HUD.gov or
through CPM.
Published June 3, 2026
673
Lenders must maintain copies of the FHA approval documentation in the loan ﬁle.
Project Requirements
For FHA mortgage loans, lenders must ensure that
the FHA standard conditions have been met for presale, occupancy status, and completion;
any additional conditions noted by FHA have been met;
the project is not an ineligible project as deﬁned in B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects;
the project is covered by the required insurance as set forth in Subpart B7-4, Liability and Fidelity/Crime
Insurance Requirements for Project Developments; and
the project is not comprised of manufactured homes.
For conventional mortgage loans, lenders must ensure that
the project meets Fannie Mae’s criteria to be considered an established project;
the project is not comprised of manufactured homes;
the project meets the Requirements Applicable to All Properties in a Condo, Co-op, or PUD Project
described in B4-2.1-01, General Information on Project Standards;
the project is not an ineligible project as described in B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects; and
any additional conditions noted by FHA have been met.
Document Retention
When lenders deliver mortgage loans secured by condo units in an FHA-approved project, lenders must retain
the documentation as set forth in Document Retention in B4-2.1-01, General Information on Project Standards.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B4-2.2-06, Project Eligibility Review Service (PERS) (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Fannie Mae's Project Eligibility Review Service (PERS), including:
Overview
Standard PERS Submission Process
Required Forms for Standard PERS Submission
Additional Requirements—For Newly Converted Non-Gut Rehabilitation Condo or Co-op Projects