SECTION: B4-2.1-03
TITLE: Ineligible Projects
EFFECTIVE: 08/06/2025
PAGES: 651-665
---
Published June 3, 2026
633
Exception to the waiver policy: Other than the PUD requirements above, if the property is a manufactured
home or the project contains any manufactured homes, such property or project is not eligible for a review
waiver and must be reviewed based on the applicable manufactured home project review requirement.
Requirements that Apply When the Project Review is Waived
The following requirements apply, in addition to those noted above, when a project review is waived:
property eligibility requirements (described in Chapter B2-3, Property Eligibility);
the project is not in Condo Project Manager (CPM) with a status of "Unavailable";
the project is not a condo hotel or motel, houseboat project, or a timeshare or segmented ownership
project (described in B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects);
priority of common expense assessments (described in  B4-2.1-01, General Information on Project
Standards);
when an appraisal of the property is obtained, it must meet all applicable appraisal requirements
(described in Chapter B4-1, Appraisal Requirements);
insurance requirements (described in Subpart B7, Insurance, as applicable);
there are no unaddressed critical repairs outstanding or projects with evacuation orders (described in
B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects) if the loan is a Fannie Mae to Fannie Mae limited cash-out reﬁnance; and
the project is not terminating and is not involved in insolvency proceedings (described in B4-2.1-03,
Ineligible Projects).
Project Review Requirements for High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
Fannie Mae waives the project review requirements for high LTV reﬁnance loans secured by units in a condo, co-
op, or PUD project. See  B5-7-01, High LTV Reﬁnance Loan and Borrower Eligibility for the requirements.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Published June 3, 2026
634
B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects (08/06/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on ineligible projects and related criteria, including:
List of Ineligible Project Characteristics
Projects that Operate as Hotels or Motels
Projects Subject to Split Ownership Arrangements
Projects that Contain Multi-Dwelling Unit Condos or Co-ops
Projects with Property that is not Real Estate
Projects that Operate as a Continuing Care Community or Facility
Non-Incidental Business Arrangements
Commercial Space and Mixed-Use Allocation
Recreational Leases and Mandatory Memberships
Live-Work Projects
Litigation or Pre-litigation Activity
Single-Entity Ownership
Projects in Need of Critical Repairs
Projects Terminating or Involved in Insolvency Proceedings
List of Ineligible Project Characteristics
Fannie Mae will not purchase or securitize mortgage loans that are secured by units in certain condo or co-op
projects if those projects have characteristics that make the project ineligible. Such characteristics are
described in the table below, with additional details provided in the sections that follow. All eligible projects
must be created and remain in full compliance with state law and all other applicable laws and regulations of
the jurisdiction in which the project is located.
Note: Loans secured by units in projects with a status of "Unavailable" in Condo Project Manager
(CPM) or on the DU Underwriting Findings report are ineligible for purchase by Fannie Mae. If a lender
determines that a project does not meet all of Fannie Mae's project eligibility requirements but
believes that the project has merit and warrants additional consideration, the lender may request an
exception (see B4-2.2-07, Projects with Special Considerations, for additional information.
Ineligible Project Characteristics Condo Project
Type
Co-op Project
Type
Timeshare, fractional, or segmented ownership projects. ✔ ✔
Published June 3, 2026
635
Ineligible Project Characteristics Condo Project
Type
Co-op Project
Type
New projects where the seller is oﬀering sale or ﬁnancing
structures in excess of Fannie Mae’s eligibility policies for
individual mortgage loans. These excessive structures include,
but are not limited to, builder/developer contributions, sales
concessions, HOA assessments, or principal and interest
payment abatements, and/or contributions not disclosed on the
settlement statement.
✔ ✔
Any project that permits a priority lien for unpaid common
expenses in excess of Fannie Mae’s priority lien limitations. (See
B4-2.1-01, General Information on Project Standards for
additional detail.)
✔  
Limited or shared equity co-ops that have not been approved by
Fannie Mae through the PERS process, as required. These are
projects in which the co-op corporation places a limit on the
amount of return that can be received when stock or shares are
sold.
 ✔
A tax-sheltered syndicate’s leasing to a co-op or “leasing” co-
ops – projects that involve the leasing of the land and the
improvements to the co-op corporation, even if the co-op
corporation owns part of the building.
 ✔
Co-op projects in which the developer or sponsor has an
ownership interest or other rights in the project real estate or
facilities other than the interest or rights it has in relation to
unsold units.
 ✔
Projects that are managed and operated as a hotel or motel,
even though the units are individually owned. (See Projects that
Operate as Hotels or Motels below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects with covenants, conditions, and restrictions that split
ownership of the property or curtail an individual borrower’s
ability to utilize the property. (See Projects Subject to Split
Ownership Arrangements below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Published June 3, 2026
636
Ineligible Project Characteristics Condo Project
Type
Co-op Project
Type
Multi-dwelling unit projects that permit an owner to hold title (or
stock ownership and the accompanying occupancy rights) to
more than one dwelling unit, with ownership of all of their owned
units (or shares) evidenced by a single deed and ﬁnanced by a
single mortgage (or share loan). (See Projects that Contain Multi-
Dwelling Unit Condos or Co-ops below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects with property that is not real estate, such as houseboat
projects. (See Projects with Property that is not Real Estate
below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Any project that is owned or operated as a continuing care
facility. (See Projects that Operate as a Continuing Care
Community or Facility below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects with non-incidental business operations owned or
operated by the HOA including, but not limited to, a restaurant,
spa, or health club. (See Non-Incidental Business Arrangements
below for additional detail and exceptions to this policy.)
✔  
The total space that is used for nonresidential or commercial
purposes may not exceed 35%.
(See Commercial Space and Mixed-Use Allocation below for
additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects with mandatory upfront or periodic membership fees for
the use of recreational amenities, such as country club facilities
and golf courses, owned by an outside party (including the
developer or builder). Membership fees paid for the use of
recreational amenities owned exclusively by the HOA or master
association are acceptable. (See Recreational Leases and
Mandatory Memberships below for additional information.)
✔ ✔
Projects that do not meet the requirements for live-work
projects. (See Live-Work Projects below for additional detail.) ✔ ✔
Published June 3, 2026
637
Ineligible Project Characteristics Condo Project
Type
Co-op Project
Type
Projects in which the HOA or co-op corporation is named as a
party to pending litigation, or for which the project sponsor or
developer is named as a party to pending litigation that relates
to the safety, structural soundness, habitability, or functional
use of the project. (See Litigation or Pre-litigation Activity below
for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects in which a single entity (the same individual, investor
group, partnership, project sponsor, or corporation) owns more
than the following total number of units in the project:
• projects with 5 to 20 units – 2 units
• projects with 21 or more units – 20%
(See Single-Entity Ownership below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Co-op projects with more than 20% of the stock or shares in the
corporation and the related occupancy rights. (See Single-Entity
Ownership below for additional detail.)
 ✔
Projects in need of critical repairs, including material deﬁciencies
and signiﬁcant deferred maintenance. (See Projects in Need of
Critical Repairs below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
Projects that are terminating or involved in insolvency
proceedings. (See Projects Terminating or Involved in Insolvency
Proceedings below for additional detail.)
✔ ✔
 
 
Projects that Operate as Hotels or Motels
A project may not be operated or managed as a hotel, motel, or similar commercial entity as evidenced by
meeting one or more of the following criteria:
The HOA is licensed as a hotel, motel, resort, or hospitality entity.
The HOA or project’s legal documents restrict owners’ ability to occupy the unit during any part of the
year.
The HOA or project’s legal documents require owners to make their unit available for rental pooling (daily
Published June 3, 2026
638
or otherwise).
The HOA or the project’s legal documents require unit owners to share proﬁts from the rental of units
with the HOA, management company, or resort, or hotel rental company.
In addition to the requirements above, any project with one or more of the following characteristics is ineligible.
The project
is primarily transient in nature;
oﬀers hotel type services (including those oﬀered by or contracted through the HOA or management
company) or characteristics such as registration services, rentals of units on a daily or short-term basis,
daily cleaning services, central telephone service, central key systems and restrictions on interior
decorating;
is a conversion of a hotel (or a conversion of a similar type of transient housing) unless the project was a
gut rehabilitation and the resulting condo units no longer have the characteristics of a hotel or similar
type of transient housing building;
is subject to voluntary rental-pooling, revenue, proﬁt or commission sharing agreements with the HOA or
management company, or similar agreements that restrict the unit owner’s ability to occupy the unit
such as blackout dates and occupancy limits to assure an inventory of units for rent on a frequent basis.
This may include daily, weekly, monthly or seasonal restrictions;
is professionally managed by a hotel or resort management company that also facilitates short term
rentals for unit owners or projects with management companies that are licensed as a hotel, motel,
resort, or hospitality entity;
is deemed to be ineligible under Freddie Mac’s requirements because of condo hotel, resort, transient or
short-term rental activity;
has a legal or common name that contains hotel, motel, or resort, unless the use of hotel, motel, or resort
is a reference to a historical use of the building and not reﬂective of its current use as a residential condo
or co-op project;
is marketed as a hotel, motel, resort or investment opportunity; or
has obtained a hotel or resort rating for its hotel, motel, or resort operations through hotel ratings
providers including, but not limited to, travel agencies, hotel booking websites, and internet search
engines.
The following criteria are examples of some common red ﬂags. The lender should perform additional due
diligence of the project when any of these characteristics are present:
75% or more of the units are owned as investment and second home occupancy - especially when the
loan transaction is not a principal residence transaction;
units that do not contain full-sized kitchen appliances;
advertisements for daily or short-term rental rates;
franchise agreements;
location of the project in a resort area;
units that are less than 400 square feet;
amenities that are common in hotels or resorts including spa services, concierge services, rentals of
recreational equipment or amenities, childcare services for short-term renters, scheduled social or
entertainment activities for short-term renters, airport shuttles, ski lift shuttles or ski lift and trail passes,
or other vacation amenities and packages; or
interior doors that adjoin diﬀerent units.
Projects Subject to Split Ownership Arrangements
Published June 3, 2026
639
Projects with covenants, conditions, and restrictions that split ownership of the property or curtail an individual
borrower’s ability to utilize the property are not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae. These types of properties
include, but are not limited to, the following:
“common interest” apartments or community apartment projects that are projects or buildings owned by
several owners as tenants-in-common or by an association in which individuals have an undivided
interest in a residential apartment building and land, and have the right of exclusive occupancy of a
speciﬁc apartment in the building;
projects that restrict the owner’s ability to occupy the unit, even if the project is not being operated as a
motel or hotel; and
projects with mandatory rental pooling agreements that require unit owners to either rent their units or
give a management ﬁrm control over the occupancy of the units.
These are formal agreements between the developer, association, and/or the individual unit
owners that obligate the unit owner to rent the property on a seasonal, monthly, weekly, or daily
basis. In many cases, the agreements include blackout dates, continuous occupancy limitations,
and other such use restrictions. In return, the unit owner receives a share of the revenue
generated from the rental of the unit.
Projects that Contain Multi-Dwelling Unit Condos or Co-ops
Projects that contain multi-dwelling units are not permitted. These projects allow an owner to hold title (or share
ownership and the accompanying occupancy rights) to a single legal unit that is sub-divided into multiple
residential dwellings within the single legal unit, with ownership of the unit (or shares) evidenced by a single
deed and ﬁnanced by a single mortgage (or share loan). The sub-divided units are not separate legal units. This
restriction applies regardless if the unit owner maintains one or more of the sub-divided units as rental units or
uses one or more of the sub-divided units as accessory or lock-out units.
This provision does not apply to condo or co-op projects that allow an individual to buy two or more individual
legal units with the intent of structurally and legally combining the units for occupancy as a single-unit dwelling.
Mortgages secured by units in these types of projects are eligible for purchase and securitization by Fannie Mae
provided all of the following requirements are met:
The unit securing the mortgage represents a single legal unit under a single deed.
Any construction or renovation to structurally combine units has no material impact on the structural or
mechanical integrity of the project’s buildings or the subject property unit.
The individual units must be fully described in the legal description in the mortgage and under a single
deed.
The project’s legal documents must have been amended to reclassify the combined units as a single unit
in the project.
All structural renovation to physically combine the units must be completed.
A condo or co-op unit with an accessory unit may be eligible on a case-by-case basis with a Fannie Mae PERS
Project Approval or a loan-level project eligibility waiver. See B4-2.2-07, Projects with Special Considerations, for
additional information on submitting an exception request.
Projects with Property that is not Real Estate
Fannie Mae acquires mortgage loans secured by real estate. Houseboats, boat slips, cabanas, timeshares, and
Published June 3, 2026
640
other forms of property that are not real estate are not eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae. The marketability and
value of individual units in a project may be adversely impacted by the inclusion of non-real estate property
such as houseboats, timeshares, and other forms and structures that are not real estate. As such, projects
containing these other non-real estate forms of property are not eligible.
Boat slips, cabanas, and other amenities are permitted when owned in common by the unit owners as part of
the HOA.
Projects that Operate as a Continuing Care Community or Facility
Mortgages secured by units in a project that operates, either wholly or partially, as a continuing care community
are ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae. These communities or facilities are residential projects designed to
meet specialized health and housing needs and typically require residents to enter into a lifetime contract with
the facility to meet all future health, housing, or care needs. These communities may also be known by other
names such as life-care facilities.
Projects that make continuing care services available to residents are eligible only if the continuing care
facilities or services are not owned or operated by the HOA and residential unit owners are not obligated to
purchase or utilize the services through a mandatory membership, contract, or other arrangement.
Continuing care communities are not the same as age-restricted projects. Age-restricted projects that restrict
the age of residents but do not require residents to enter into a long-term or lifetime contract for healthcare and
housing as the residents age are eligible.
Non-Incidental Business Arrangements
A condo project is ineligible if the HOA is receiving more than 10% of its budgeted income from non-incidental
business arrangements related to the active ownership and/or operation of amenities or services available to
unit owners and the general public. This includes, but is not limited to, businesses such as a restaurant or other
food- and beverage-related services, health clubs, and spa services.
Non-incidental income from the following sources is permitted provided the income does not exceed 15% of the
project’s budgeted income:
income from the use of recreational amenities or services owned by the HOA for the exclusive use by unit
owners in the project or leased to another project according to a shared amenities agreement (as noted
below), or
income from the leasing of units in the project acquired by the HOA through foreclosure.
The single-entity ownership limits (described above) will apply to the number of units owned and rented by the
HOA.
Commercial Space and Mixed-Use Allocation
Fannie Mae requires that no more than 35% of a condo or co-op project or 35% of the building in which the
project is located be commercial space or allocated to mixed-use. This includes commercial space that is above
and below grade. Note that projects located in Special Flood Hazard Areas with commercial space greater than
Published June 3, 2026
641
25% of the project’s square footage, including any commercial parking facilities, may need supplemental or
private ﬂood insurance policies to meet Fannie Mae’s requirements for ﬂood insurance. Coverage under the
National Flood Insurance Program may provide inadequate coverage for projects with commercial space in
excess of 25%. See B7-3-06, Flood Insurance Requirements for All Property Types for additional information.
Any commercial space in the project or in the building in which the residential project is located must be
compatible with the overall residential nature of the project.
Note: Rental apartments and hotels located within the project must be classiﬁed as commercial space
even though these may be considered “residential” in nature. Commercial parking facilities can be
excluded from the commercial space calculation.
Calculation of Commercial Space. Commercial space allocation is calculated by dividing the total non-
residential square footage by the total square footage of the project or building. Lenders are responsible for
determining the total square footage of the project, the square footage of the non-residential space, and the
residential space square footage. This calculation includes the total square footage of commercial space even if
the residential and commercial owners are represented by separate associations.
Non-residential square footage includes:
retail and commercial space, and
space that is non-residential in nature and owned by a private individual or entity outside of the HOA
structure.
Examples include, but are not limited to:
rental apartments,
hotels,
restaurants, and
private membership-based ﬁtness facilities.
Non-residential square footage excludes amenities that are:
residential in nature;
designated for the exclusive use of the residential unit owners (such as, but not limited to, a ﬁtness
facility, pool, community room, and laundry facility); and
owned by the unit owners or the HOA.
The following table shows which commercial or mixed-use space must be included in the calculation of the
percentage of commercial space.
If the commercial or mixed-use space is… Then its square footage is
included in the calculation of
commercial space percentage
owned, controlled, or operated by the subject property’s HOA that
is unrelated to the project-speciﬁc amenities oﬀered for the
exclusive use and enjoyment by the HOA members
Yes
Published June 3, 2026
642
If the commercial or mixed-use space is… Then its square footage is
included in the calculation of
commercial space percentage
owned by the subject property’s HOA but controlled or operated by
a separate private entity
Example: Oﬃce space owned by the HOA but leased to a private
business.
Yes
owned and controlled by a project HOA other than the subject
property’s HOA that shares the same master HOA with the subject
property’s HOA AND the commercial space is co-located in the
project’s building(s) that contain(s) the residential units
Yes
owned, controlled, or operated by a private entity that is co-
located in the building(s) that contain(s) the project’s residential
units
Example:
• ﬂoors 1 to 4 consist of hotel and retail,
• ﬂoors 5 to 7 consist of privately-owned and -managed rental
apartments, and
• the remaining ﬂoors consist of the condo project units.
Yes
owned, controlled, or operated by a private entity that is NOT co-
located in the building(s) or common elements as declared in the
project legal documents that contain(s) the project’s residential
units
No
owned and controlled by a project HOA other than the subject
property’s HOA that shares the same master HOA with the subject
property’s HOA BUT the commercial space is located in a building
that is separate from the building(s) containing the project’s
residential units
No
Recreational Leases and Mandatory Memberships
Loans securing units in condo and co-op projects with mandatory memberships that require the HOA or co-op
members to pay dues to a third-party organization (such as a golf course or other recreational facility) are
ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae. The project must be the sole owner of its amenities, though certain exceptions
will be allowed when there is a shared amenities agreement between HOAs or co-op projects.
Projects subject to recreational leases are also not eligible. A recreational lease is a long-term lease between
Published June 3, 2026
643
the HOA and a third party for access to certain recreational facilities for a speciﬁed time period and payment. In
these scenarios, the owner of the facilities is often the project’s developer or has some ﬁnancial relationship to
the developer and the leases often provide ongoing proﬁt to this party for the duration of the lease. The lease
may permit the owner of the facilities to lease the amenities to other parties in addition to the HOA or co-op.
The HOA or co-op may have certain ﬁnancial, insurance, and other legal obligations under the lease that may be
burdensome over time. These leases may or may not provide the project long-term access to the amenities
beyond the initial lease term.
When an HOA is part of a master association, the lender is required to evaluate whether the subject property’s
HOA members are required to participate in a mandatory membership that is managed through the master
association. Additionally, the master association may not be subject to recreational leases as described above.
Lenders are encouraged to review the project’s legal documents, sales contract, and budget to identify
mandatory memberships and recreational leases. Some red ﬂags that a project may require a mandatory
membership, or be a party to a recreational lease, is that the amenities may have some of the following
characteristics:
the amenities have a diﬀerent name from the residential project and may be recognized as a diﬀerent
legal entity from the HOA,
owners are required to pay large up-front fees to become a member or have access to the amenities,
owners are required to pay monthly or periodic dues to the entity that owns or operates the amenities
(these dues may be paid directly to the owner or operator or they may be paid to the HOA and passed
through to the owner or operator),
the general public may be able to purchase memberships or access passes for the use of the amenities,
the amenities can be leased or rented to the public for events not hosted by the HOA or its members, or
HOA members may be subject to block-out dates or other use restrictions.
Live-Work Projects
Live-work projects are projects that permit individual residential unit owners to operate and run a small business
from their residential unit. Units in projects that permit live-work arrangements are eligible for sale to Fannie
Mae provided the project complies with all applicable local zoning, program, or statutory requirements for live-
work projects and the nature of the project is primarily residential.
Litigation or Pre-litigation Activity
Projects in which the HOA or co-op corporation is named as a party to pending litigation, or for which the project
sponsor or developer is named as a party to pending litigation that relates to the safety, structural soundness,
habitability, or functional use of the project are ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
If a lender discovers that a project is engaging in pre-litigation activities (such as, but not limited to, arbitration
or mediation) that are reasonably expected to proceed to formal litigation; the lender must apply Fannie Mae’s
litigation policies. Whether the legal action is resolved through arbitration, mediation, or it proceeds to litigation,
there is risk that the project is exposed to material ﬁnancial hardship related to the matters addressed in the
complaint.
If the lender determines that pending litigation involves minor matters with no impact on the safety, structural
soundness, habitability, or functional use of the project, the project is eligible provided the litigation meets one
Published June 3, 2026
644
or more of the following:
non-monetary litigation including, but not limited to neighbor disputes or rights of quiet enjoyment;
litigation for which the insurance carrier has agreed to provide the defense, and the amount is covered by
the HOA's or co-op corporation's insurance;
the HOA or co-op corporation is the plaintiﬀ in the litigation and upon investigation and analysis the
lender has reasonably determined the matter is minor and will result in an insigniﬁcant impact to the
ﬁnancial stability of the project;
the reasonably anticipated or known damages and legal expenses are not expected to exceed 10% of the
project’s funded reserves;
the HOA or co-op corporation is seeking recovery of funds for issues that have already been remediated,
repaired, or replaced and there is no anticipated material adverse impact to the HOA or co-op corporation
if funds are not recovered;
litigation concerning localized damage to a unit in the project that does not impact the overall safety,
structural soundness, habitability, or functional use of the project; or
the HOA or co-op corporation is named as the plaintiﬀ in a foreclosure action, or as a plaintiﬀ in an action
for past due HOA or co-op assessments.
Litigation that involves personal injury or death does not meet Fannie Mae’s criteria for minor litigation unless
the claim amount is reasonably anticipated or known,
the insurance carrier has agreed to provide the defense, and
the reasonably anticipated or known damages are covered by the HOA’s or co-op corporation’s insurance.
Construction defect litigation in which the HOA or co-op corporation is the plaintiﬀ are not considered a minor
matter unless the HOA or co-op corporation is seeking recovery of funds for issues that have already been
remediated, repaired, or replaced. In addition, there is no anticipated material adverse impact to the HOA or co-
op if the funds are not recovered.
The lender must obtain documentation to support its analysis that the litigation meets Fannie Mae’s criteria for
minor litigation as described above.
Single-Entity Ownership
A project meets the deﬁnition of single-entity ownership when a single entity (the same individual, investor
group, partnership, project sponsor, or corporation) owns more than the following total number of units in the
project:
projects with 5 to 20 units - 2 units
projects with 21 or more units - 20%
Units currently subject to any rental or lease arrangement must be included in the calculation. This includes
lease arrangements containing provisions for the future purchase of units such as lease-purchase and rent-to-
own arrangements.
The following may be excluded from the single-entity ownership calculation:
units that are owned by the project sponsor or developer and are vacant and being actively marketed for
sale; or
units that are controlled or owned by a non-proﬁt entity for the purpose of providing aﬀordable housing,
Published June 3, 2026
645
units held in aﬀordable housing programs (including units subject to non-eviction rent regulation codes),
or units held by higher-education institutions for a workforce housing program.
project sponsor may own more than 20% of the stock or shares in the corporation and the related
occupany rights provided that any such stock or share ownership above the 20% limitation pertains to
units that are subject to statutory rent regulations that limit the sponsor's ability to sell their ownership
interest in such shares or stocks. The lender must obtain documentation to validate the stock or share is
subject to such regulations.
The single-entity ownership requirement may be waived when the transaction is a purchase transaction that will
result in a reduction of the single-entity ownership concentration. In such instances, the following requirements
must be met:
units owned by the single entity represent no more than 49% of the units;
evidence is required that the single entity is marketing units for sale to further reduce single-entity
ownership, with the goal of reducing the concentration to 20% or less of the project units;
the single entity is current on all HOA assessments; and
there are no pending or active special assessments in the project.
Projects in Need of Critical Repairs
Projects in need of critical repairs are those needing repairs or replacements that signiﬁcantly impact the safety,
soundness, structural integrity or habitability of the project's building(s), or the ﬁnancial viability or
marketability of the project. Critical repairs include conditions such as:
material deﬁciencies, which if left uncorrected, have the potential to result in or contribute to critical
element or system failure within one year;
any mold, water intrusions or potentially damaging leaks to the project's building(s);
advanced physical deterioration;
any project that failed to pass state, county, or other jurisdictional mandatory inspections or certiﬁcations
speciﬁc to structural safety, soundness, and habitability; or
any unfunded repairs costing more than $10,000 per unit that should be undertaken within the next 12
months (does not include repairs made by the unit owner or repairs funded through a special
assessment).
Examples of some items to consider include, but are not limited to, sea walls, elevators, waterprooﬁng,
stairwells, balconies, foundation, electrical systems, parking structures or other load-bearing structures.
If damage or deferred maintenance is isolated to one or a few units and does not aﬀect the overall safety,
soundness, structural integrity, or habitability of the project, then these requirements do not apply.
Routine repairs are not considered to be critical and include work that is:
preventative in nature or part of normal capital replacements (for example, focused on keeping the
project fully functioning and serviceable); and
accomplished within the project's normal operating budget or through special assessments that are
within guidelines.
A project with an evacuation order due to an unsafe condition, either for a partial or total evacuation of the
project's building(s), is ineligible until the unsafe condition has been remediated and the building(s) is deemed
safe for occupancy.
Published June 3, 2026
646
Special Assessments
Special assessments may be current or planned. Lenders must obtain and review the following information for
each special assessment to determine if it addresses a critical repair:
what is the purpose of the special assessment,
when was the special assessment approved and is it planned (approved by the unit owners, but not yet
initiated by the board) or already being executed,
what was the original amount of the special assessment and the remaining amount to be collected, and
when is the expected date the special assessment will be paid in full.
If the special assessment is associated with a critical repair and the issue is not remediated, the project is
ineligible.
Inspection Reports
If a structural and/or mechanical inspection was completed within 3 years of the lender's project review date,
the lender must obtain and review the inspection report. The report cannot indicate that any critical repairs are
needed, no evacuation orders are in eﬀect, and no regulatory actions are required.
If the inspection report indicates there are unaddressed critical repairs, the project is ineligible until the required
repairs have been completed and documented accordingly. The lender must review an engineer's report or
substantially similar document to determine if the repairs completed have resolved the safety, soundness,
structural integrity, or habitability concerns of the project.
Documentation
Lenders may need to review a combination of documents to determine if a project meets Fannie Mae's physical
condition requirements. Lenders are responsible for determining which documents are needed to ensure
compliance with the requirements of this Guide. Some examples of this documentation include, but are not
limited to:
HOA board meeting minutes,
engineer report(s),
structural and/or mechanical inspection reports,
reserve studies,
a list of necessary repairs provided by the HOA or the project's management company,
a list of special assessments provided by the HOA or the project's management company, and
other substantially similar documentation.
Projects Terminating or Involved in Insolvency Proceedings
A project must not be the subject of an action that would cause the project to cease to exist, including
termination, deconversion, or dissolution of the project's legal structure. In addition, a project must not be the
subject of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, or receivership proceeding, or any
substantially similar action under state or federal law. This includes any project that has voted or is in the
process of voting on any of the actions or proceedings described above.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
647
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-06 August 06, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
Announcement SEL-2018-05 June 05, 2018
Announcement SEL-2018-01 January 30, 2018
 
B4-2.1-04, Environmental Hazard Assessments (06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on environmental hazard assessments, including:
Overview
Types of Environmental Hazard Assessments
Acceptability of Consultants
Phase I Environmental Hazard Assessment
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Description
Who Should Complete the Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Report Forms and Requirements
Kinds of Testing or Sampling Under Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessments
Results of an Environmental Hazard Assessment