SECTION: B4-2.1-04
TITLE: Environmental Hazard Assessments
EFFECTIVE: 06/03/2020
PAGES: 665-668
---
Published June 3, 2026
647
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-06 August 06, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2020-06 October 07, 2020
Announcement SEL-2018-05 June 05, 2018
Announcement SEL-2018-01 January 30, 2018
 
B4-2.1-04, Environmental Hazard Assessments (06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on environmental hazard assessments, including:
Overview
Types of Environmental Hazard Assessments
Acceptability of Consultants
Phase I Environmental Hazard Assessment
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Description
Who Should Complete the Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Report Forms and Requirements
Kinds of Testing or Sampling Under Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessments
Results of an Environmental Hazard Assessment
Published June 3, 2026
648
Overview
An environmental hazard assessment is required for condo and co-op projects if an environmental problem is
identiﬁed by the lender through performance of its project underwriting or due diligence. If environmental
problems are identiﬁed, the problems must be determined to be acceptable. Lenders should keep a copy of this
assessment in the project review ﬁle.
Types of Environmental Hazard Assessments
The table below describes two types of environmental hazard assessments.
Type Performed by Description
Phase I assessment (see E-2-02,
Suggested Format for Phase I
Environmental Hazard
Assessments)
the lender or by someone
employed by the lender
gathers information from various
sources to evaluate the
environmental soundness of the
project.
Phase II assessment a qualiﬁed environmental
consultant
when required
• Phase I assessment identiﬁes
problems or
• Phase I assessment is
inconclusive with regard to any
particular hazard.
Acceptability of Consultants
Fannie Mae reserves the right to notify lenders that a particular consultant is no longer acceptable. Fannie Mae
also reserves the right to refuse to accept, at any time, any future environmental assessment, report, warranty,
or certiﬁcation from individual consultants, speciﬁc consulting ﬁrms, or speciﬁc branch oﬃces of consulting
ﬁrms.
Phase I Environmental Hazard Assessment
A Phase I assessment enables lenders to quickly determine whether adequate information exists to evaluate the
environmental status of a property. A Phase I assessment is principally a screening process that focuses on
reviewing the available documentation, interviewing people who are knowledgeable about the site operations,
and inspecting the site, the building, and adjoining properties. Fannie Mae does not require a speciﬁc form for a
Phase I assessment.
Any report that is thorough and professionally prepared will be acceptable. For a suggested format, see E-2-02,
Suggested Format for Phase I Environmental Hazard Assessments.
Published June 3, 2026
649
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Description
A Phase II assessment provides a more detailed review of the site. It includes speciﬁc physical sampling for each
hazard that was not acceptable under the Phase I assessment, as well as a review of historical records. It
determines the presence or absence of speciﬁc environmental liabilities (such as asbestos or leaking
underground storage tanks) or quantiﬁes the extent of an observed or suspected environmental liability (such
as soil or groundwater contamination).
Who Should Complete the Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment
The specialized nature of the investigations conducted under a Phase II assessment requires the knowledge and
experience of a qualiﬁed consultant.
Lenders must use care in choosing ﬁrms to perform environmental hazard assessments. Lenders should conﬁrm
that the consultant it plans to use is not aﬃliated with the buyer or seller of the property or a ﬁrm engaged in a
business that might present a conﬂict of interest. Lenders should also evaluate whether the consulting ﬁrm’s
personnel have adequate and appropriate education and training to carry out the required duties.
Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessment Report Forms and Requirements
Fannie Mae does not specify an exact format for the consultant’s report. Any report that is thorough and
professionally prepared will be acceptable.
The table below provides the requirements for the Phase II Environmental Assessment Report.
✓ The consultant’s report for a Phase II environmental hazard assessment report
must
 include a full description of the sampling procedures
 include the laboratory results
 include the consultant’s recommendations
 follow all regulatory standards and good management practices at all times, especially when
physical sampling and laboratory analysis are involved
 
include a certiﬁcation in the report that:
• the assessment was performed diligently and in accordance with all regulatory and good
management standards; and
• to the best of the consultant’s knowledge, the results are complete and accurate
Published June 3, 2026
650
✓ The consultant’s report for a Phase II environmental hazard assessment report
must
 include the signature of an oﬃcer of the consulting ﬁrm that conducted the work
Kinds of Testing or Sampling Under Phase II Environmental Hazard Assessments
Examples of the kind of testing or sampling that occur under a Phase II assessment include but are not limited
to the following:
investigating the status of any enforcement actions related to neighboring properties under the
Superfund or Resource, Conservation, and Recovery Acts;
testing for underground storage leaks;
sampling and analyzing the soil;
sampling and analyzing the groundwater;
testing soil or facilities that are suspected as being contaminated by polychlorinated biphenyls; and
sampling and analyzing bulk asbestos and developing related abatement and maintenance programs, if
necessary.
Results of an Environmental Hazard Assessment
Lenders must evaluate the results of the assessment and determine if the conditions are acceptable to be
remediated. Refer to B4-2.1-05, Unacceptable Environmental Hazards and B4-2.1-06, Remedial Actions for
Environmental Hazard Assessments Below Standards.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
B4-2.1-05, Unacceptable Environmental Hazards (06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on unacceptable environmental hazards, including:
Overview