SECTION: B4-2.1-06
TITLE: Remedial Actions for Environmental Hazard Assessments Below Standards
EFFECTIVE: 06/03/2020
PAGES: 671-673
---
Published June 3, 2026
653
✓ Examples of Unacceptable Environmental Hazards
 a property that has conditions representing material violations of applicable local, state, or
federal environmental or public health statutes and laws
 a property that is contaminated by friable asbestos-containing materials
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
 
B4-2.1-06, Remedial Actions for Environmental Hazard Assessments
Below Standards (06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on remedial actions for environmental hazard assessments that are below
standards, including:
Background
Remedial Actions for Environmental Hazard Assessments Below Standards
“No Further Action” Notices
Background
When an environmental hazard has been fully remediated, the hazard no longer poses any risks for future use
of the land or structures or the need for ongoing activities to ensure human health and safety. Some hazards
result in ongoing risks that require continual mitigation strategies to minimize potential harm. The
environmental hazard is considered mitigated when those strategies suﬃciently minimize the current and future
risks to human health and safety.
If the hazard will never be fully remediated but the impacts have been suﬃciently mitigated to satisfy applicable
regulatory standards, the site may be deemed suitable and safe for residential use. The lender has the
delegation to review the environmental hazard and its mitigation plan to determine if the project meets Fannie
Mae’s requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
654
Remedial Actions for Environmental Hazard Assessments Below Standards
Properties that fail to meet a particular standard may be corrected through remedial actions and then retested.
Remedial actions must be undertaken with the advice and written endorsement of a qualiﬁed environmental
consultant. All remedial actions must be taken in accordance with all regulatory and good management
standards.
Typically, lenders must conﬁrm the completion and eﬀectiveness of remedial actions based on the following
conditions:
A qualiﬁed environmental consultant states in writing that remedial work needed to make the property
eligible under the environmental standards can be completed within 90 days.
The project’s developer or sponsor signs a contract with a qualiﬁed ﬁrm to perform the remedial work
within 90 days.
The lender must warrant that the job has been satisfactorily completed and the property meets Fannie Mae’s
environmental eligibility standards.
If the property is not remediated at the time of project approval, the project developer or sponsor must provide
a performance escrow equal to 150% of the gross contract amount to ensure the completion of the remedial
work. Loans securing units in the project cannot be sold to Fannie Mae before completion of the remediation.
“No Further Action” Notices
Some jurisdictions or government agencies will issue a “no further action” notice (or letter) to alert the public
that all available remediation steps for an environment hazard have been completed. A “no further action”
status for a speciﬁc environmental hazard may indicate that
the hazard has been fully remediated and the site is suitable for residential development,
all applicable remediation actions have been taken but the site is not suitable for any type of
development, or
other variations between these two opposing outcomes.
Due to the variation of what a “no further action” status means, lenders cannot rely solely on that status to
determine if the environmental hazard has been suﬃciently resolved. For the project to meet Fannie Mae’s
requirements, lenders must determine if the speciﬁc “no further action” condition has been suﬃciently
resolved.
Lenders must follow Fannie Mae’s appraisal and notiﬁcation requirements for environmental hazards in
B4-1.4-08, Environmental Hazards Appraisal Requirements, any time the subject property is impacted by an
environmental hazard.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
655
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
 
Section B4-2.2, Project Eligibility
B4-2.2-01, Limited Review Process (04/02/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the Limited Review process performed by lenders, including:
Unit and Project Type Eligible for Limited Review
Transactions Eligible for a Limited Review
Limited Review Eligibility Requirements
CPM Delivery Restrictions Notiﬁcations
Unit and Project Type Eligible for Limited Review
To be eligible for a Limited Review, the unit securing the mortgage must be an attached unit in an established
condo project.
Transactions Eligible for a Limited Review
The following table describes the transactions that are eligible for a Limited Review.
Limited Review Eligible Transactions -Attached Units in Established Condo Projects (For
Projects Outside of Florida)
Occupancy Type Maximum LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV Ratios
Principal residence 90%