SECTION: B4-2.2-03
TITLE: Full Review: Additional Eligibility Requirements for Units in New and Newly Converted Condo Projects
EFFECTIVE: 06/05/2018
PAGES: 684-688
---
Published June 3, 2026
666
Fannie Mae requires that a reserve study used by the lender in its analysis meet or exceed
requirements set forth in relevant state statutes.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-02 March 02, 2022
 
B4-2.2-03, Full Review: Additional Eligibility Requirements for Units
in New and Newly Converted Condo Projects (06/05/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the Full Review of units in new and newly converted condo projects,
including:
Additional Requirements for Units in New and Newly Converted Condo Projects
Condo Project Legal Document Review Requirements for Units in New or Newly Converted Projects
Additional Requirements for Units in New and Newly Converted Condo Projects
When performing a Full Review of new or newly converted condo projects, lenders must ensure compliance with
the following additional requirements.
Note: Projects consisting of units in new or newly converted projects in Florida must be reviewed by
Fannie Mae through the PERS process. See B4-2.2-04, Geographic-Speciﬁc Condo Project
Considerations.
Published June 3, 2026
667
✓ Full Review Requirements – For Units in New or Newly Converted Condo Projects
 
The project, or the subject legal phase, must be “substantially complete” unless other
completion arrangements have been approved by Fannie Mae through the PERS review
process.
There may not be more than one legal phase per building.
“Substantially complete” means that
• a certiﬁcate of occupancy or other substantially similar document has been issued by the
applicable governmental agency for the project or subject phase; and
• all the units and buildings in the legal phase in which the unit securing the mortgage is
located are complete, subject to the installation of buyer selection items, such as appliances.
Note: Fannie Mae does not require the installation of typical buyer selection items such as
appliances, ﬂoor coverings, counter tops, or light ﬁxtures that are common and customary for
the market, although buyer selections that involve the modiﬁcation of a unit ﬂoor plan must
be complete. Lenders are expected to obtain appropriate documentation to verify that all
buyer selection items for the unit being ﬁnanced are properly installed prior to closing.
 
At least 50% of the total units in the project or subject legal phase must have been conveyed
or be under contract for sale to principal residence or second home purchasers.
• For a speciﬁc legal phase or phases in a new project, at least 50% of the total units in the
subject legal phase(s), considered together with all prior legal phases, must have been
conveyed or be under contract for sale to principal residence or second home purchasers.
• For the purposes of this review process, a project consisting of one building cannot have
more than one legal phase.
 Individual units in new condo projects must be available for immediate occupancy at the time
of loan closing.
 
If the project is part of a larger development, and the unit owners are required to pay monthly
assessments of more than $50 to a separate master association for that development, lenders
must review the overall development plan for the master association to evaluate the
acceptability of the project.
 
The overall development plan of the project must be reviewed and the following must be
acceptable:
• consistency of future and existing improvements,
• time limitations for expansion, and
• reciprocal easements between legal phases.
Published June 3, 2026
668
✓ Full Review Requirements – For Units in New or Newly Converted Condo Projects
 
For projects (or the subject legal phase) that are only substantially complete rather than 100%
complete, lenders must determine that acceptable completion assurance arrangements that
guarantee the future completion of all project facilities, common elements, and limited
common elements have been provided. These assurance arrangements may include
• cash deposits,
• letters of credit,
• assignments of certiﬁcates of deposit, or
• assignments of other assets that can be easily converted to cash.
Similar arrangements must be provided to support assurances against construction and
structural defects. The assurances must
• protect each unit against defects that become apparent within one year from the date of its
settlement, and
• cover all common facilities for one year from the date on which units that represent at least
60% of the votes in the HOA have been transferred.
 The developer or sponsor should provide for and promote the unit owners’ early participation
in the management of the project.
 The project must meet the condo project legal document requirements in the following
section.
Condo Project Legal Document Review Requirements for Units in New or Newly
Converted Projects
The table below provides Fannie Mae's requirements for the review of the condo project's legal documents for
units in new and newly converted condo projects containing more than four residential units.
Condo Project Legal Document Review Requirements - For Units in New or Newly Converted
Condo Projects
Limitations on Ability to
Sell/Right of First Refusal
Any right of ﬁrst refusal in the condo project documents will not
adversely impact the rights of a mortgagee or its assignee to:
• foreclose or take title to a condo unit pursuant to the remedies
in the mortgage,
• accept a deed or assignment in lieu of foreclosure in the event
of default by a mortgagor, or
• sell or lease a unit acquired by the mortgagee or its assignee.
Published June 3, 2026
669
Condo Project Legal Document Review Requirements - For Units in New or Newly Converted
Condo Projects
Rights of Condo Mortgagees and
Guarantors
The project documents must give the mortgagee and guarantor of
the mortgage on any unit in a condo project the right to timely
written notice of:
• any condemnation or casualty loss that aﬀects either a material
portion of the project or the unit securing its mortgage;
• any 60-day delinquency in the payment of assessments or
charges owed by the owner of any unit on which it holds the
mortgage;
• a lapse, cancellation, or material modiﬁcation of any insurance
policy maintained by the homeowners’ association; and
• any proposed action that requires the consent of a speciﬁed
percentage of mortgagees.
First Mortgagee’s Rights
Conﬁrmed
No provision of the condo project documents gives a condo unit
owner or any other party priority over any rights of the ﬁrst
mortgagee of the condo unit pursuant to its mortgage in the case
of payment to the unit owner of insurance proceeds or
condemnation awards for losses to or a taking of condo units
and/or common elements.
Published June 3, 2026
670
Condo Project Legal Document Review Requirements - For Units in New or Newly Converted
Condo Projects
Amendments to Documents
Required provisions related to amendments to project documents
are as follow:
• The project documents must provide that amendments of a
material adverse nature to mortgagees be agreed to by
mortgagees that represent at least 51% of the votes of unit
estates that are subject to mortgages.
• The project documents must provide for any action to terminate
the legal status of the project after substantial destruction or
condemnation occurs or for other reasons to be agreed to by
mortgagees that represent at least 51% of the votes of the unit
estates that are subject to mortgages.
• The project documents may provide for implied approval to be
assumed when a mortgagee fails to submit a response to any
written proposal for an amendment within 60 days after it
receives proper notice of the proposal, provided the notice was
delivered by certiﬁed or registered mail, with a return receipt
requested. Notwithstanding the foregoing, project documents that
were recorded prior to August 23, 2007, may provide for implied
approval to be assumed when a mortgagee fails to submit a
response to any written proposal for an amendment within 30
days after it receives proper notice of the proposal, provided the
notice was delivered by certiﬁed or registered mail, with a return
receipt requested.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
 
B4-2.2-04, Geographic-Speciﬁc Condo Project Considerations
(03/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on geographic-speciﬁc condo project considerations, including:
Florida — Attached Units in New and Newly Converted Condo Projects
Florida — Project Review Maximum LTV Requirements for Attached Units in Established Projects