SECTION: B4-2.1-01
TITLE: General Information on Project Standards
EFFECTIVE: 05/06/2026
PAGES: 638-649
---
Published June 3, 2026
620
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-07 August 02, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
 
Chapter B4-2, Project Standards
Introduction
This chapter describes Fannie Mae’s project standards, policies, and requirements.
Section B4-2.1, General Project Standards
B4-2.1-01, General Information on Project Standards (05/06/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on Fannie Mae’s project standards, including:
Fannie Mae’s Project Risk Overview
Project Documentation
Condominium Project Questionnaire
Project Types
Project Review Methods
Waiver of Project Review
Requirements Applicable to All Properties in a Condo, Co-op, or PUD Project
Priority of Common Expense Assessments
Delivery Requirements
Expiration for Project Reviews
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Published June 3, 2026
621
Fannie Mae’s Project Risk Overview
The quality of mortgages secured by units in condo, co-op, and planned unit development (PUD) projects can be
inﬂuenced by certain characteristics of the project or by the project as a whole. Before delivering a loan secured
by an individual unit in a project, the lender must determine that the project meets Fannie Mae's eligibility
requirements.
Project eligibility risk is a risk that is distinct from the credit risk presented by individual borrowers. Units located
in a project present risks that are also distinct from the risks associated with properties that are not part of a
homeowners’ association (HOA) or project. These risks include the following:
the ﬁnancial stability and viability of the project;
the condition and marketability of the project;
limitations on the unit owner’s ability to control the decision-making for the project, occupy the unit, or
utilize the project’s amenities and common elements;
dissolution of the project and the unit owner’s resulting rights and responsibilities;
project-level litigation;
project-level misrepresentation and fraud;
the inability to cure a mortgage default due to restrictions in the project documents such as, but not
limited to, right of ﬁrst refusal provisions; and
insurance coverage that is inadequate to protect the project from unexpected losses.
Project eligibility and ﬁnancial strength are key drivers of credit performance on individual unit mortgages and
critical to the long-term success of the project. Fannie Mae’s project eligibility and underwriting requirements
seek to mitigate project level risks and to ensure that projects are demonstrably well-managed.
Lenders that sell mortgage loans secured by units in a condo, co-op, or PUD project to Fannie Mae are expected
to have staﬀ that are knowledgeable about and qualiﬁed to evaluate the speciﬁc risks presented by these types
of projects. The project review is in addition to the review the lender completes for underwriting the borrower,
the transaction terms, and the individual unit appraisal.
Fannie Mae’s project standards requirements are intended to address common project types across a broad
geographic range. If a lender determines that a project does not meet all of Fannie Mae’s project eligibility
criteria, but feels that the project has merit and warrants additional consideration, the lender may request an
exception (see  B4-2.2-07, Projects with Special Considerations, for additional information).
Project Documentation
The documentation needed to complete a project review may diﬀer depending on the project and review type.
Lenders are responsible for determining the documentation needed to ensure that the project meets all of
Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements. Project documentation may include, but is not limited to, the following:
legal and recorded documents including the covenants, conditions and restrictions, declaration of
condominium, or other similar documents that establish the legal structure of the project;
project budgets, ﬁnancial statements, and reserve studies;
project construction plans;
architects’ or engineers’ reports;
completion reports;
Published June 3, 2026
622
project marketing plans;
environmental hazard reports;
attorney opinions;
appraisal reports;
evidence of insurance policies and related documentation; and
condominium project questionnaires.
Sources for project information include, but are not limited to, appraisers, HOAs, co-op corporations,
management companies, real estate agents, insurance professionals, and project developers. Lenders are
responsible for the accuracy of any information obtained from these sources.
Document Retention
Lenders must retain all of the project documentation needed to demonstrate that the project meets Fannie
Mae’s eligibility requirements, including any documentation the lender relied upon to enter information into
CPM. This documentation must be retained, and made available upon request, as long as lenders originate
mortgages from the project, and until all mortgages sold to Fannie Mae have been liquidated.
Condominium Project Questionnaire
The Condominium Project Questionnaire (Form 1076) helps lenders collect data to determine condo project
eligibility. This form is optional; however, lenders are encouraged to use and retain the form in the loan ﬁle. A
substantially similar form may also be used in its place.
Project Types
The scope of Fannie Mae’s requirements and the speciﬁc eligibility criteria to be met are dependent upon
various project types and/or loan level characteristics. The characteristics that deﬁne each project type are
described in the following table.
Published June 3, 2026
623
Project Type Identiﬁcation Criteria
Established condo project
A project for which all of the following are true:
• at least 90% of the total units in the project have been conveyed to unit
purchasers;
• the project is 100% complete, including all units and common elements;
• the project is not subject to additional phasing or annexation; and
• control of the HOA has been turned over to the unit owners.
A project may also be treated as an established project with less than 90% of
the units sold to unit purchasers, provided the deﬁcit is the result of the
developer holding back units for rent. The following requirements must be
met:
• construction is 100% complete;
• the project is not subject to any additional phasing or annexation, and the
HOA has been turned over to the unit owners;
• the developer’s share of the units held back for rental is no more than 20%
of the project’s total units;
• HOA fees are paid current in developer-held units; and
• there are no active or pending special assessments in the project.
New condo project
A project for which one or more of the following is true:
• fewer than 90% of the total units in the project have been conveyed to unit
purchasers (or 80% if it meets the exception noted in the row above);
• the project is not fully completed, such as proposed construction, new
construction, or the proposed or incomplete conversion of an existing
building to a condo;
• the project is newly converted;
• the project is subject to additional phasing or annexation; or
• HOA still in the developer’s control.
Detached condo project A project comprised solely of detached units or that comprises a mixture of
attached and detached units and may be a new or established project.
Two- to four-unit condo
project
A project comprised of two, three, or four residential units in which each unit
is evidenced by its own title and deed. A two- to four-unit condo project may
be either a new or established project and may be comprised of attached
and/or detached units.
Manufactured home
project A project consisting partially or solely of manufactured homes.
Published June 3, 2026
624
Project Type Identiﬁcation Criteria
Co-op project
A project in which a corporation or trust holds title to the property and sells
shares of stock representing the value of a single apartment unit to
individuals who, in turn, receive a proprietary lease as evidence of title.
Note: A condop project is a type of co-op project that operates inside a
condo development. See B4-2.3-02, Co-op Project Eligibility, for additional
information on condop projects.
Planned unit
development (PUD)
project
A project or subdivision that consists of common property and improvements
that are owned and maintained by an HOA for the beneﬁt and use of the
individual PUD unit owners. The unit owners in the project have title to a
residential property (lot and structure) and an interest in the HOA that owns
or manages the common area and facilities of the PUD.
 
See  B4-2.3-01, Eligibility Requirements for Units in PUD Projects, for
additional detail used in determining whether a project is new or established
and subject to Fannie Mae’s PUD eligibility requirements.
Horizontal Property Regimes
Fannie Mae considers a development to be a condo project any time it is declared or ﬁled as a horizontal
property regime in accordance with local statutes. Exception is made, if the local statute provides for the
horizontal property regime to be created as a PUD development and the project’s legal documents speciﬁcally
state that the project is a PUD.
Lenders must determine if the subject unit is located in a condo or PUD and use the appropriate mortgage
documents and appraisal forms.
Project Review Methods
Fannie Mae purchases or securitizes mortgage loans secured by units in condo, co-op, and PUD projects that
meet Fannie Mae's eligibility requirements. To determine whether the project meets these requirements, a
number of project review methods are available. Whether a project review method is allowable or required
depends on
the number of units in the project (two- to four- or more than four);
the unit type (attached or detached);
the project type (condo, co-op, or PUD);
the project status (new or established); and
the mortgage transaction.
The characteristics that dictate which method to use are shown in the following table.
Published June 3, 2026
625
Unit and Project Type Project Review Methods
Attached condo unit in a new or newly
converted project
• Full Review completed with Condo Project Manager
(CPM), or
• Fannie Mae Review through the standard Project
Eligibility Review Service (PERS) process
Attached condo unit in an established project
Based on the LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios, occupancy,
and location (projects in Florida), these projects may
be reviewed using a Limited Review.
Projects not meeting the Limited Review criteria must
be reviewed using a
• Full Review (with CPM),
• FHA Project Approval (HUD Review and Approval
Process only), or
• Fannie Mae Review through the streamlined PERS
process (for established condo projects)
Unit in a new or established two- to four-unit
condo project
Project review is waived, with the exception of some
basic requirements that apply.
Detached unit in a new or established condo
project
Project review is waived, with the exception of some
basic requirements that may apply.
Unit in a co-op project
• Full Review
• Fannie Mae Review through the standard PERS
process
Note:  Lenders must obtain special approval to be
eligible to deliver co-op share loans to Fannie Mae
secured by ownership interest in a co-op share
project.  See A2-1-01, Contractual Obligations for
Sellers/Servicers, for additional information.
Established condo project consisting solely of
multi-width manufactured homes not subject to
a community land trust, deed restriction,
ground lease, or shared equity arrangement
Full Review (without CPM)
Published June 3, 2026
626
Unit and Project Type Project Review Methods
• New condo project consisting of
manufactured homes, (including those subject
to a community land trust, deed restriction,
ground lease, or shared equity arrangement)
• New PUD project consisting of manufactured
homes subject to a community land trust, deed
restriction, ground lease, or shared equity
arrangement
• Newly converted non-gut rehabilitation condo
and co-op projects (with attached units) that
contain more than four units
• New or newly converted condo
project consisting of attached units located in
Florida
• Limited or shared equity co-op projects,
provided the limited or shared equity
provisions are designed to preserve or promote
access to aﬀordable housing
Fannie Mae Review through the standard PERS process
• Established condo project consisting of
single-width manufactured homes
• Established condo or established PUD
project consisting of manufactured
homes subject to a community land trust, deed
restriction, ground lease, or shared equity
arrangement
Fannie Mae Review through the streamlined PERS
process
Unit in a PUD project Project review is waived, with the exception of some
basic requirements that apply
Unit in a condo project approved by the FHA FHA Project Approval (see B4-2.2-05, FHA-Approved
Condo Review Eligibility for additional details)
 Note: Unless speciﬁcally noted in the above table, all references to manufactured homes may be
single-width, multi-width, or a combination of both.
Waiver of Project Review
Fannie Mae does not require a thorough project review for several types of projects or loan transactions,
Published June 3, 2026
627
including:
detached condo units;
units in a two- to four-unit condo project;
units in a PUD project, except for PUD projects consisting of single-width and/or multi-width manufactured
homes subject to a community land trust, deed restriction, ground lease, or shared equity arrangement;
Fannie Mae to Fannie Mae limited cash-out reﬁnances with LTV ratios < 80%; and
high LTV reﬁnance loans.
See B4-2.1-02, Waiver of Project Review for additional information and for the requirements that apply when a
project review is waived.
Requirements Applicable to All Properties in a Condo, Co-op, or PUD Project
All mortgages secured by units in condo, co-op, or PUD projects must comply with the following:
requirements speciﬁc to the project review method used to determine that project’s eligibility;
property eligibility requirements (described in Chapter B2-3, Property Eligibility);
priority of common expense assessments (described below); and
when an appraisal of the property is obtained, it must meet all applicable appraisal requirements
(described in Chapter B4-1, Appraisal Requirements).
Priority of Common Expense Assessments
Fannie Mae allows a limited amount of regular common expense assessments (typically known as HOA fees) to
have priority over Fannie Mae’s mortgage lien for mortgage loans secured by units in a condo or PUD project.
This applies if the condo or PUD project is located in a jurisdiction that has enacted
the Uniform Condominium Act,
the Uniform Common Interest Ownership Act, or
a similar statute that provides for unpaid assessments to have priority over ﬁrst mortgage liens.
The table below describes the permitted priority of common expense assessments for purposes of determining
the eligibility of a mortgage loan secured by a unit in a condo or PUD project for purchase by Fannie Mae.
Published June 3, 2026
628
If the condo or PUD project... Then...
is located in a jurisdiction that enacted a law on
or before January 14, 2014, that provides that
regular common expense assessments will have
priority over Fannie Mae’s mortgage lien for a
maximum amount greater than six months,
the maximum number of months of regular common
expense assessments permitted under the applicable
jurisdiction’s law as of January 14, 2014, may have
priority over Fannie Mae’s mortgage lien, provided
that if the applicable jurisdiction’s law as of that date
referenced an exception for Fannie Mae’s
requirements, then no more than six months of
regular common expense assessments may have
priority over Fannie Mae’s mortgage lien.
is located in any other jurisdiction,
no more than six months of regular common expense
assessments may have priority over Fannie Mae’s
mortgage lien, even if applicable law provides for a
longer priority period.
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Guide, which do not require the lender to represent or
warrant compliance with Fannie Mae project legal document requirements, the condo or PUD project legal
documents must evidence compliance with the above priority of common expense assessment requirements.
Delivery Requirements
When delivering a loan for a unit located in a project, the lender must provide the Project Type Code and any
applicable special feature codes as shown in the following table. The lender must also report all other applicable
special feature code(s), including those speciﬁed in a variance in the Lender Contract and in the Special Feature
Codes document on Fannie Mae's website.
Project Type Code Description
E Established PUD project
F New PUD project
P Limited Review—New condo project
Q Limited Review—Established condo project
R Full Review—New condo project
Published June 3, 2026
629
Project Type Code Description
S Full Review—Established condo project
T
Fannie Mae-approved condo or PUD project, including those that:
• have an Approved by Fannie Mae status in CPM,
• are approved through PERS,
• receive a CPM Approved by Fannie Mae message in DU
U FHA-approved condo project
V Condo project review waived - for certain project and transaction types
1 Full Review—Co-op project
2 Fannie Mae-approved co-op project, including those approved through PERS
Special Feature Code Description
588
Detached Condominium Unit
Used to identify detached units in an attached or detached condominium
project
CPM ID Delivery Requirements
Lenders are required to deliver the CPM ID number in the ﬁeld for "FNM Condominium Project Manager Project
Identiﬁer" (Sort ID 39) in ULDD for the following projects:
projects that require the use of CPM; or
Fannie Mae-approved projects that are delivered as Type T for condos or PUDs, or Type 2 for co-ops.
Lenders are encouraged to include the condo or co-op’s HOA or Project IRS Federal Tax Identiﬁcation Number
(TIN) in the loan ﬁle and in CPM.
Expiration for Project Reviews
Project reviews must meet the following timeline requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
630
Project Review Process Employed Expiration of Project Review
• Limited Review
• Full Review for Established Projects
Must have been completed within one year prior to
the note date
Full Review for New Projects Must have been completed within 180 days prior to
the note date
Approved by Fannie Mae as reﬂected in CPM Must be valid (unexpired) as of the note date*
Approved by FHA Must be valid (unexpired) as of the note date
*A loan that receives a CPM Approved by Fannie Mae message in DU will retain the Approved by Fannie Mae
status through the credit report expiration date speciﬁed on the DU Underwriting Findings report, unless the
lender makes any changes to the CPM ID, project name, property address (state or zip code), or credit report.
See B4-2.2-02, Full Review Process for additional requirements for loans that receive a CPM Approved by Fannie
Mae message in DU. 
Loans must be delivered to Fannie Mae within 120 days following the note date. When the elapsed time
between note date and delivery date exceeds this limit, the lender may deliver the loan only if the project
continues to meet Fannie Mae project eligibility requirements at the time of delivery.
Loans secured by units in a project that fails to meet Fannie Mae’s project eligibility requirements under the
applicable review type as of the note date are eligible for delivery after the project comes into compliance with
the eligibility requirements (provided all standard mortgage seasoning and other applicable requirements are
met). For example, if a lender closes a loan in a new project for which the pre-sales are less than the pre-sale
requirement, the lender may deliver the loan after the project’s pre-sales meet the Fannie Mae requirement
(assuming the loan meets all other applicable requirements).
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-05 May 06, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-06 August 06, 2025
Published June 3, 2026
631
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-02 April 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-02 March 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-03 April 07, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-02 March 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-06 July 03, 2019
 
B4-2.1-02, Waiver of Project Review (07/02/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the waiver of project reviews, including:
Transactions Eligible for a Waiver of Project Review