SECTION: B5-1-01
TITLE: High-Balance Mortgage Loan Eligibility and Underwriting
EFFECTIVE: 07/02/2025
PAGES: 715-716
---
Published June 3, 2026
697
Subpart B5, Unique Eligibility and Underwriting
Considerations
Introduction
This subpart contains unique eligibility and underwriting considerations pertaining to certain loan, property, and
ﬁnancing types.
Chapter B5-1, High-Balance Mortgage Loans
Introduction
This chapter describes the policies and requirements related to high-balance mortgage loans.
B5-1-01, High-Balance Mortgage Loan Eligibility and Underwriting
(07/02/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains loan eligibility and underwriting information on high-balance mortgage loans, including:
Loan Limits
Loan Eligibility and Underwriting Requirements
High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
Government Mortgage Loans
Loan Limits
The high-balance loan requirements apply to mortgage loans with original loan amounts meeting the high-cost
area loan limits established by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Fannie Mae publishes on its website the
maximum high-cost area loan limits that may apply by state (or territory); however, speciﬁc loan limits are
established for each county (or equivalent) and may be lower for each speciﬁc high-cost area. Refer to Loan
Limits for Conventional Mortgages for additional information, including the loan limits for each area.
Lenders are responsible for ensuring that the original principal balance of each mortgage loan does not exceed
the applicable maximum loan limit for the speciﬁc area in which the property is located. To assist lenders in
determining the applicable limits, Fannie Mae posts reference material on its website, including the Loan Limit
Geocoder, which lenders can use to look up loan limits based on a speciﬁc address (or batch of addresses).
Published June 3, 2026
698
Loan Eligibility and Underwriting Requirements
High-balance mortgage loans must meet all standard Fannie Mae eligibility and underwriting requirements, as
outlined in this Selling Guide, except as noted in this section. The following guidelines apply to all high-balance
mortgage loans:
Loans must be conventional ﬁrst-lien mortgages only.
Loans must meet the LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios as outlined in the Eligibility Matrix.
All loans must be underwritten through DU.
For additional eligibility information, see the Eligibility Matrix. For information about loan delivery, see B5-1-02,
High-Balance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, Special Feature Codes, and Delivery Limitations.
Note: Unless otherwise notiﬁed by Fannie Mae, existing variances in the Lender Contract apply to
high-balance mortgage loans; however, the more restrictive of the eligibility requirements of this
section or the lender’s variance will apply.
High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
High-balance mortgage loans are eligible for high LTV reﬁnance options. The eligibility and appraisal
requirements speciﬁc to high LTV reﬁnance loans supersede all requirements that apply to high-balance
mortgage loans. See B5-7-01, High LTV Reﬁnance Loan and Borrower Eligibility for additional information.
Government Mortgage Loans
For details, see B6-1-01, General Government Mortgage Loan Requirements, B6-1-02, Eligible FHA-Insured
Mortgage Loans, B6-1-03, Eligible VA-Guaranteed Mortgages, and B6-1-05, Eligible RD-Guaranteed Mortgages.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019