SECTION: B5-1-02
TITLE: High-Balance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, Special Feature Codes, and Delivery Limitations
EFFECTIVE: 02/01/2023
PAGES: 716-718
---
Published June 3, 2026
698
Loan Eligibility and Underwriting Requirements
High-balance mortgage loans must meet all standard Fannie Mae eligibility and underwriting requirements, as
outlined in this Selling Guide, except as noted in this section. The following guidelines apply to all high-balance
mortgage loans:
Loans must be conventional ﬁrst-lien mortgages only.
Loans must meet the LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios as outlined in the Eligibility Matrix.
All loans must be underwritten through DU.
For additional eligibility information, see the Eligibility Matrix. For information about loan delivery, see B5-1-02,
High-Balance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, Special Feature Codes, and Delivery Limitations.
Note: Unless otherwise notiﬁed by Fannie Mae, existing variances in the Lender Contract apply to
high-balance mortgage loans; however, the more restrictive of the eligibility requirements of this
section or the lender’s variance will apply.
High LTV Reﬁnance Loans
High-balance mortgage loans are eligible for high LTV reﬁnance options. The eligibility and appraisal
requirements speciﬁc to high LTV reﬁnance loans supersede all requirements that apply to high-balance
mortgage loans. See B5-7-01, High LTV Reﬁnance Loan and Borrower Eligibility for additional information.
Government Mortgage Loans
For details, see B6-1-01, General Government Mortgage Loan Requirements, B6-1-02, Eligible FHA-Insured
Mortgage Loans, B6-1-03, Eligible VA-Guaranteed Mortgages, and B6-1-05, Eligible RD-Guaranteed Mortgages.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-05 July 02, 2025
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Published June 3, 2026
699
B5-1-02, High-Balance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, Special Feature
Codes, and Delivery Limitations (02/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the following aspects of high-balance mortgage loans, including:
Pricing/Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Mortgage Insurance Requirements
Delivery Data Requirements Including Special Feature Codes
High-Balance Whole Loan and MBS Delivery Limitations
Pricing/Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Live pricing options are provided for high-balance mortgage loan transactions in Fannie Mae’s whole loan
committing application. Speciﬁc additional LLPAs apply to all high-balance mortgage loans, whether delivered
under whole loan commitments or MBS contracts. High-balance mortgage loans are also subject to all other
applicable LLPAs. All price adjustments are cumulative. For details, see the Loan-Level Price Adjustment (LLPA)
Matrix.
Mortgage Insurance Requirements
Mortgage insurance coverage is required for high-balance mortgage loans with LTV ratios greater than 80%.
Financed borrower-purchased mortgage insurance is permitted; however, the maximum gross LTV (after the
inclusion of the ﬁnanced premium) cannot exceed 95%.
Delivery Data Requirements Including Special Feature Codes
The lender must report SFC 808 when delivering a high-balance loan to Fannie Mae, except for government
loans and unless otherwise instructed. All other applicable SFCs must also be reported as required for the
transaction.
High-Balance Whole Loan and MBS Delivery Limitations
Fannie Mae's requirements regarding delivery limitations for nonstandard loans apply to high-balance mortgage
loans. For details see C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans, and C3-2-01,
Determining Eligibility for Loans Pooled into MBS. Furthermore, lenders may deliver high-balance mortgage
loans into a Fannie Majors TBA-eligible pool. For details, see C3-6-01, Parameters for Pooling Loans Into Fannie
Majors.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
700
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-03 April 06, 2022
 
Chapter B5-2, Manufactured Housing
Introduction
This chapter describes the requirements for originating and underwriting mortgage loans secured by
manufactured housing.
B5-2-01, Manufactured Housing (11/06/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on manufactured housing, including:
Manufactured Housing Overview
Lender Eligibility
Variances
Lender Indemniﬁcation
Manufactured Housing Overview
Any dwelling unit built on a permanent chassis that is attached to a permanent foundation system and
evidenced by a HUD Data Plate or HUD Certiﬁcation Label(s) (for each section of the home) is a manufactured
home for purposes of Fannie Mae’s guidelines. This includes properties meeting the MH Advantage
requirements described in B2-3-02, Special Property Eligibility and Underwriting Considerations: Factory-Built
Housing.
The manufactured home and the land on which it is situated must be legally classiﬁed as real property.
Other factory-built housing —such as modular, prefabricated, panelized, or sectional housing—is not considered
manufactured housing and mortgage loans secured by such housing are eligible under the guidelines stated in
Subpart B2, Eligibility.