SECTION: B5-3.2-04
TITLE: HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Costs and Escrow Accounts
EFFECTIVE: 12/10/2025
PAGES: 753-756
---
Published June 3, 2026
735
value of the property, and must self-report any change in value by entering it into Loan Quality Connect. In
some cases, the lender may be responsible for additional mortgage insurance or LLPAs. When the new LTV
exceeds Fannie Mae’s eligibility criteria, or the changes result in a home that does not meet Fannie Mae’s
general property standards and appraisal requirements, the lender may be required to repurchase the loan.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
 
B5-3.2-04, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Costs and Escrow
Accounts (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HomeStyle Renovation costs and escrow accounts, including:
Costs and Escrow Accounts
Contingency Reserve
Escrowing Initial Mortgage Payments
Renovation Escrow Account
Costs and Escrow Accounts
The costs of the renovations will be based on the plans and speciﬁcations for the work and on the contractor’s
bids for all of the work requested by the borrower. The renovation costs may include a contingency reserve,
renovation-related costs, and an escrow for mortgage payments that come due during the renovation period, if
the borrower is unable to occupy the property during the renovation.
Contingency Reserve
The contingency reserve should cover all renovation-related costs including labor, materials, fees, permits,
plans and speciﬁcations, inspection costs, and other expenses related to the renovation.
Published June 3, 2026
736
A contingency reserve is not required for a mortgage secured by a one-unit property, however the lender may
choose to establish one. A contingency reserve equal to 10% of the total costs of the repairs and renovation
work must be established and funded for a mortgage that is secured by a two- to four-unit property to cover
required unforeseen repairs or deﬁciencies that are discovered during the renovation. The lender may increase
the contingency reserve to 15% if it determines the higher reserve is appropriate given the scope and scale of
the renovation.
The contingency reserve may be considered as part of the total renovation costs or the borrower may fund it
separately. It may be released only if required, necessary, and unforeseen repairs or deﬁciencies are discovered
during the renovation. Unused contingency funds, unless they were received directly from the borrower, must
be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the renovation loan after all of the renovation work has been
completed and the certiﬁcation of completion has been obtained.
However, a borrower may use the remaining contingency reserve funds for making additional improvements or
repairs to the property, if the lender:
warrants that the work scheduled and described in the plans and speciﬁcations was completed and the
contingency reserve funds have already been reduced by any cost overruns; and
ensures that
the contingency reserve funds that are to be used for additional improvements or repairs are
actually used to improve the real property,
the improvements or repairs are documented with paid receipts from the borrower’s own funds,
and
inspections of the additional work or installations are completed by the appraiser who prepared the
“as completed” value appraisal report.
Escrowing Initial Mortgage Payments
At the borrower’s request, up to six mortgage payments (PITIA) that will become due during the renovation
period may be included as part of the total renovation costs for a principal residence property if the property
cannot be occupied during the renovation period. The lender, servicer, or its agent must hold the funds in a
renovation escrow account, and only apply them to payments that come due during the period in which the
property cannot be occupied.
Note: The lender may set up a separate escrow account for the mortgage payments in lieu of
including the funds in the renovation escrow account.
Renovation Escrow Account
The renovation costs (less any draws made at closing), the contingency reserve, mortgage payments (if
applicable), and monies that the borrower provides from their own funds, must be deposited into an escrow
account for the beneﬁt of the borrower. The renovation escrow account must meet the requirements shown in
the following table at the time of delivery to Fannie Mae.
Published June 3, 2026
737
✓ Renovation Escrow Account Requirements
 The account must meet the requirements of and be administered in accordance with the
requirements in the Servicing Guide, D1-2-01, Renovation Mortgage Loans.
 
The funds must be used to complete the repair and renovation work and, if applicable, make any
mortgage payments that come due during the renovation period.
Note: The lender must ensure that the funds held for mortgage payments are used only for that
purpose and are not used for renovations or any other reason.
 
The lender, or its agent, is responsible for administering this account and ensuring the repairs
and renovations are completed in a timely manner and in accordance with the plans,
speciﬁcations, and contractor estimated bids.
 
The lender must release funds from this account only when any given renovation work has been
completed, and then only in accordance with the agreed-upon schedule and after receipt of a
speciﬁc request.
 
• Renovation funds may only be disbursed using the following processes: a check issued jointly
to the borrower and the contractor; or
• a wire transfer to the contractor after the lender has obtained written consent from the
borrower to release the funds to the contractor. The written consent must be received prior to
each disbursement. It must specify the borrower’s name, property address, amount of funds to
be disbursed, contractor to which the funds are to be disbursed, and date of the consent.
 
After renovations are complete, all funds remaining in this account, including any mortgage
payment reserves, may be used to either:
• reduce the unpaid principal balance of the loan (unless they represent funds deposited
separately by the borrower), or
• to make additional improvements or repairs to the property.
Note: The lender may fund up to 50% of the total planned renovation costs at closing with an initial
draw. A portion of this initial draw may be used to pay for permits, architect fees, and other eligible
renovation-related costs (see B5-3.2-02, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Loan and Borrower
Eligibility  for additional information on renovation-related costs). Borrower deposits may also be
reimbursed from the draw if the funds were used for renovation-related costs and were intended to be
ﬁnanced through the renovation loan. The lender must obtain periodic inspections to conﬁrm the work
is being completed as planned prior to the issuance of additional escrow draws.
Should there be an increase in costs during the renovation period, the borrower, or the lender, must fund the
amount of the increase. The lender may not increase the loan amount to oﬀset any increase in costs. The lender
must ensure that the additional funds are obtained in a manner that will not aﬀect the priority of Fannie Mae’s
Published June 3, 2026
738
lien.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
B5-3.2-05, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Completion
Certiﬁcation (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the HomeStyle Renovation mortgage including:
Completion Certiﬁcation
Title and Insurance Updates
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Completion Certiﬁcation
Following completion of the renovation work, the lender must obtain a certiﬁcation of completion stating the
renovation was completed in accordance with the submitted plans and speciﬁcations. The certiﬁcation must be
documented on the Appraisal Update and/or Completion Report (Form 1004D). The 1004D must conﬁrm all
“subject to” items listed on the appraisal were completed. If deviations have been made to the initial plans, the
appraiser must note any impact to the value. If the value has been impacted, the lender must follow the policy
in UnplannedChanges in Scope or Incomplete Work in B5-3.2-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral
Considerations.
The lender must also obtain a certiﬁcate of occupancy upon completion of renovation if it is required by local
authorities for the type of renovation work that was completed.
Title and Insurance Updates
Concurrent with the last disbursement of funds, the lender must obtain a title update through the date the
renovation was completed, to ensure the continuance of Fannie Mae’s ﬁrst lien priority and the absence of any
mechanic's or materialmen’s liens. When the property is located in a state in which contractors’,