SECTION: B5-3.1-01
TITLE: Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing: Overview
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 734-736
---
Published June 3, 2026
716
mortgage, deed of trust, or security deed.
However, Fannie Mae believes that if a lender follows procedures tailored to take advantage of all protection
oﬀered under existing state law—including taking steps to assure that no certiﬁcate of title still exists that bears
evidence of any lien securing any other loan—suﬃcient legal protection is aﬀorded.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-07 November 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-08 September 06, 2023
 
Chapter B5-3, Construction and Energy Financing
Introduction
This chapter describes the policies and requirements for construction and energy ﬁnancing transactions.
Section B5-3.1, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing
Published June 3, 2026
717
B5-3.1-01, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing:
Overview (06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains an overview of conversion of construction-to-permanent mortgage loan ﬁnancing.
Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing Overview
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing Overview
The conversion of construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing involves the granting of a long-term mortgage to a
borrower for the purpose of replacing interim construction ﬁnancing that the borrower has obtained to fund the
construction of a new residence.
Construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing can be structured as a transaction with one closing or a transaction with
two separate closings. The borrower must hold title to the lot, which may have been previously acquired or be
purchased as part of the transaction.
All construction work, including any work that could entitle a party to ﬁle a mechanic's or materialmen’s lien,
must be completed and paid for, and all mechanic's liens, materialmen’s liens, and any other liens and claims
that could become liens relating to the construction must be satisﬁed before the mortgage loan is delivered to
Fannie Mae. The lender must retain in its individual loan ﬁle a Form 1004D or a completion alternative of the
completed property. When a construction-to-permanent mortgage loan provides funds for acquisition or
reﬁnancing of an unimproved lot and the construction of a residence on the lot, the lender must retain a
certiﬁcate of occupancy or an equivalent form from the applicable government authority.
The lender must use Fannie Mae's uniform mortgage instruments to document the permanent mortgage. These
documents may not be altered to include any reference to construction of the property, other than any
alteration that Fannie Mae speciﬁcally requires.
Attached units in a condo project and all co-op properties are ineligible for construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing.
Detached units in condo projects are permitted for construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing, including manufactured
homes in a condo project (subject to applicable project review requirements).
For guidance on data entry for construction-to-permanent transactions in DU, see the related Desktop
Underwriter Job Aid.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
718
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
B5-3.1-02, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing:
Single-Closing Transactions (05/06/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing loan eligibility for single-closing
transactions, including:
Single-Closing Transaction Overview
Terms of Construction Loan Period for Single-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Eligible Loan Purposes for Single-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Calculating the LTV Ratio for Single-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Down Payment Requirements for Single-Closing Purchase Transactions
Modiﬁcations of Single-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Underwriting Single-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Age of Credit Documents
Age of Appraisal Documents
Requaliﬁcation Requirements
Loan Conversion Documentation Options
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Single-Closing Transaction Overview
Single-closing transactions may be used for both the construction loan and the permanent ﬁnancing if the
borrower wants to close on both the construction loan and the permanent ﬁnancing at the same time. When a
single-closing transaction is used, the lender will be responsible for managing the disbursement of the loan
proceeds to the builder, contractor, or other authorized suppliers.
Because the loan documents specify the terms of the permanent ﬁnancing, the construction loan will
automatically convert to a permanent long-term mortgage loan upon completion of the construction.