SECTION: B5-3.2-03
TITLE: HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral Considerations
EFFECTIVE: 12/10/2025
PAGES: 751-753
---
Published June 3, 2026
733
Borrowers must meet the requirements of  B2-2-01, General Borrower Eligibility Requirements. Nonproﬁt
investors and local government agencies may be considered for eligibility on a negotiated basis. Lenders may
contact their Fannie Mae customer account team for more information.
To ensure that the borrower understands all of the terms of a HomeStyle Renovation mortgage, the lender may
use Fannie Mae’s HomeStyle Renovation Consumer Tips (Form 1204), as a checklist for the key facts that need
to be disclosed to the borrower, and the borrower’s signature will serve as an acknowledgment of their
understanding of these facts.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
B5-3.2-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Collateral
Considerations (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HomeStyle Renovation mortgage collateral considerations, including:
Appraisal Requirements
Contractor Requirements
Plans and Speciﬁcations
Unplanned Changes in Scope or Incomplete Work
Appraisal Requirements
The appraisal report for a HomeStyle Renovation mortgage must provide an “as completed” appraised value
that estimates the value of the property after completion of the renovation work. (See B5-3.2-02, HomeStyle
Renovation Mortgages: Loan and Borrower Eligibility, for requirements pertaining to the cost of the renovations
as a percentage of the appraised value. See also Unplanned Changes in Scope or Incomplete Work later in this
topic.
Contractor Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
734
All renovation work must be performed by a licensed contractor or subcontractor, unless contractor licensing is
not applicable under state or local law for the speciﬁc trade or type of renovations being performed.
The borrower must choose the contractor to perform the needed renovation, subject to the lender’s
determination that the contractor is
qualiﬁed and experienced,
has all appropriate credentials required by the state,
is ﬁnancially able to perform the duties necessary to complete the renovation work in a timely manner,
and
agrees to indemnify the borrower for all property losses or damages caused by its employees or
subcontractors
The lender may not choose the contractor or refer the borrower to any one speciﬁc contractor. However, the
lender may require the borrower to obtain a completed Contractor Proﬁle Report (Form 1202) from the
contractor that is selected to ensure that the lender has suﬃcient information available to make a
determination about the contractor’s qualiﬁcations.
The borrower may also complete repairs under the “Do It Yourself” option described in B5-3.2-02, HomeStyle
Renovation Mortgages: Loan and Borrower Eligibility.
Plans and Speciﬁcations
The plans and speciﬁcations must be prepared by a registered, licensed, or certiﬁed general contractor,
renovation consultant, or architect. The plans and speciﬁcations should fully describe all of the work to be done
and provide an indication of when various jobs or stages of completion will be scheduled (including both the
start and completion dates).
The lender must use the plans and speciﬁcations to document and evaluate the quantity, quality, and cost of
the renovation work that is to be done and to determine the amount of ﬁnancing that will be available. These
plans and speciﬁcations also must be used by the appraiser in the development of their opinion of the “as
completed” value of the property.
Before approving any change a borrower wants to make to the original plans and speciﬁcations, the lender must
require the borrower to submit a HomeStyle Change Order Request (Form 1200) or a substantially similar
document, that provides a detailed description of
the changes,
the cost of the changes, and
the estimated completion date(s).
Unplanned Changes in Scope or Incomplete Work
Lenders must work with borrowers and contractors to ensure renovations are completed as planned, within an
acceptable timeframe. If unforeseen circumstances occur during the renovation work, such as property damage
from a natural or manmade disaster, or a life altering event such as death or divorce, the lender must take
additional steps to evaluate the materiality of the change to any renovations in progress.
The lender must obtain an updated appraisal to determine whether the changes will impact the “as completed”
Published June 3, 2026
735
value of the property, and must self-report any change in value by entering it into Loan Quality Connect. In
some cases, the lender may be responsible for additional mortgage insurance or LLPAs. When the new LTV
exceeds Fannie Mae’s eligibility criteria, or the changes result in a home that does not meet Fannie Mae’s
general property standards and appraisal requirements, the lender may be required to repurchase the loan.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
 
B5-3.2-04, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages: Costs and Escrow
Accounts (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HomeStyle Renovation costs and escrow accounts, including:
Costs and Escrow Accounts
Contingency Reserve
Escrowing Initial Mortgage Payments
Renovation Escrow Account
Costs and Escrow Accounts
The costs of the renovations will be based on the plans and speciﬁcations for the work and on the contractor’s
bids for all of the work requested by the borrower. The renovation costs may include a contingency reserve,
renovation-related costs, and an escrow for mortgage payments that come due during the renovation period, if
the borrower is unable to occupy the property during the renovation.
Contingency Reserve
The contingency reserve should cover all renovation-related costs including labor, materials, fees, permits,
plans and speciﬁcations, inspection costs, and other expenses related to the renovation.