SECTION: B5-3.4-01
TITLE: Property Assessed Clean Energy Loans
EFFECTIVE: 10/08/2025
PAGES: 766-767
---
Published June 3, 2026
748
Section B5-3.4, Property Assessed Clean Energy Loans
B5-3.4-01, Property Assessed Clean Energy Loans (10/08/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) loans, including:
Overview
Eligibility
Reﬁnancing Options for Properties with a PACE Loan
Delivery Requirements
Overview
Certain energy retroﬁt lending programs, often referred to as Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) programs,
are made by localities to ﬁnance residential energy-related improvements and are generally repaid through the
homeowner’s real estate tax bill. These loans typically have automatic ﬁrst lien priority over previously recorded
mortgages. The terms of the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac Uniform Security Instruments prohibit loans that have
senior lien status to a mortgage.
Eligibility
Fannie Mae will not purchase mortgage loans secured by properties with an outstanding PACE loan unless the
terms of the PACE loan program do not provide for lien priority over ﬁrst mortgage liens. Lenders must monitor
state and local law to determine which jurisdictions oﬀer PACE loans that may provide for lien priority.
If the PACE loan is structured as a subordinate lien or unsecured loan, the ﬁrst mortgage loan may be
underwritten to Fannie Mae’s standard guidelines.
However, for PACE loans originated prior to July 6, 2010, Fannie Mae waives the uniform security instrument
prohibition against a PACE loan with lien priority if the corresponding mortgage loan was purchased before July
6, 2010 or is in an MBS pool with an issue date on or before July 1, 2010.
Note: On the Form 1003 (1/2021) the borrower must indicate if the property will be subject to a PACE
lien that will take priority over the ﬁrst mortgage lien in Section 5a E. The lender must indicate if the
property is currently subject to a a PACE lien that will take priority over the ﬁrst mortgage lien in
Section L1.
Published June 3, 2026
749
Reﬁnancing Options for Properties with a PACE Loan
The following requirements apply to borrowers with loans that are owned or securitized by Fannie Mae who seek
to reﬁnance and who obtained a PACE loan prior to July 6, 2010:
Paying oﬀ the PACE loan: The lender must ﬁrst attempt to qualify the borrower for either a cash-out or
limited cash-out reﬁnance option, with the PACE loan being paid oﬀ as part of the reﬁnance. To mitigate
the risk posed by PACE obligations that take lien priority over the mortgage, Fannie Mae requires that
borrowers with suﬃcient equity pay oﬀ the existing PACE obligation as a condition to obtaining a new
mortgage loan. The prohibition against using the proceeds of a limited cash-out reﬁnance to pay oﬀ a
loan not used to purchase the property will not apply.
Loan caseﬁles underwritten in DU as a limited cash-out reﬁnance may receive an Ineligible
recommendation when it appears the borrower is receiving more than 1%/$2,000 cash back due to the
payoﬀ of a PACE loan. The lender may deliver the loan with the Ineligible recommendation and retain the
DU limited waiver of underwriting representations and warranties provided that the mortgage loan meets
the requirements of this Guide, including (but not limited to) A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement
Relief of Representations and Warranties
Retaining the PACE loan: If the borrower is unable to qualify for a cash-out or limited cash-out
reﬁnance with suﬃcient proceeds to pay oﬀ the PACE loan, the lender may underwrite the loan as a
limited cash-out reﬁnance, with the PACE loan remaining in place. In these cases, it will not be necessary
to include the PACE loan in the calculation of the CLTV ratio, though it must be included in the monthly
housing expense (PITIA) and debt-to-income calculation.
Delivery Requirements
For those eligible limited cash-out reﬁnances where the PACE loan remains in place, the loans must be delivered
with SFC 173.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-08 October 08, 2025
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 