SECTION: B5-3.1-03
TITLE: Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing: Two-Closing Transactions
EFFECTIVE: 08/07/2019
PAGES: 742-744
---
Published June 3, 2026
724
Option 1: A construction loan rider must be used to modify Fannie Mae’s uniform instrument that will be
used for the permanent loan. The rider must state the construction loan terms, and the construction-
related provisions of the rider must become null and void at the end of the construction period and before
the permanent loan is sold to Fannie Mae. Because the permanent loan cannot be sold before it is
scheduled to begin amortizing, the lender will need to amend the construction loan rider, and the
accompanying uniform instrument, if the construction is completed sooner or later than originally
anticipated. The amendment(s) should provide the new dates on which amortization for the permanent
loan will begin and end. The lender also will need to record the amended documents before the
permanent loan is sold.
Option 2: A separate modiﬁcation agreement must be used to convert the construction loan into
permanent ﬁnancing. This agreement must be executed and recorded in the applicable jurisdiction before
the permanent loan is sold to Fannie Mae.
The lender must include the applicable conversion document in its loan submission package. When amended
documents are recorded in connection with a construction loan rider, the lender also must include a copy of the
original documentation that the borrower signed.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-05 May 06, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-02 March 02, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-08 September 01, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
Published June 3, 2026
725
B5-3.1-03, Conversion of Construction-to-Permanent Financing: Two-
Closing Transactions (08/07/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on conversion of construction-to-permanent ﬁnancing loan eligibility for two-
closing transactions, including:
Two-Closing Transactions Overview
Eligible Loan Purposes for Two-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
Two-Closing Transactions Overview
Two-closing construction-to-permanent mortgage transactions utilize two separate loan closings with two
separate sets of legal documents. A modiﬁcation may not be used to update the original note, rather a new note
must be completed and signed by the borrower(s). The ﬁrst closing is to obtain the interim construction
ﬁnancing (and may include the purchase of the lot), and the second closing is to obtain the permanent ﬁnancing
upon completion of the improvements. Fannie Mae does not purchase construction loans (the ﬁrst closing);
however, Fannie Mae does purchase loans that were used to provide the permanent ﬁnancing.
The lender that provides the permanent long-term mortgage may be a diﬀerent lender than the one that
provided the interim ﬁnancing. The lender must underwrite the borrower based on the terms of the permanent
mortgage.
Eligible Loan Purposes for Two-Closing Construction-to-Permanent Mortgages
In a two-closing construction-to-permanent transaction, the permanent mortgage delivered to Fannie Mae may
be closed as:
a limited cash-out reﬁnance transaction, or
a cash-out reﬁnance transaction.
Two-closing construction-to-permanent mortgages are subject to the limited cash-out and cash-out reﬁnance
maximum LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios based on the property type provided in the Eligibility Matrix , as
applicable. For the borrower to be eligible for a cash-out reﬁnance transaction, the borrower must have held
legal title to the lot for at least six months prior to the closing of the permanent mortgage. All other standard
cash-out reﬁnance eligibility and underwriting requirements apply.
Note: Two-closing cash-out reﬁnances are not permitted on a manufactured home.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
726
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement-SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
Section B5-3.2, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgage
B5-3.2-01, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgages (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HomeStyle Renovation mortgages, including:
Overview
Allowable Improvements
Lender Eligibility
Lender Responsibilities
Delivery and Recourse Requirements
Removal of Recourse
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Overview
The HomeStyle Renovation mortgage enables a borrower to purchase a property or reﬁnance an existing loan
and include funds in the loan amount to cover the costs of repairs, remodeling, renovations, or energy
improvements to the property. The loan may be delivered to Fannie Mae prior to completion of the renovation,
subject to limited recourse as described below.
Note: For loan caseﬁles underwritten through DU, DU will determine that the transaction is a
HomeStyle Renovation loan if the Renovation indicator in Property and Loan Information (L1) is
selected and there is an amount entered in Line B (L4) of the online loan application.
Allowable Improvements
There are no required improvements or restrictions on the types of renovations allowed, nor is there a minimum
dollar amount for renovations.