SECTION: B5-4.2-03
TITLE: Loans Secured by HomePath Properties
EFFECTIVE: 05/07/2025
PAGES: 780-782
---
Published June 3, 2026
762
loans, including those mortgages that receive an Approve/Ineligible recommendation, provided the loan meets
the requirements contained in this section as well as those contained in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and
Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties.
Appraisal Requirements
The appraisal for the property must follow standard requirements contained in Chapter B4–1, Appraisal
Guidelines.
Those guidelines allow an appraisal to be based on the “as is” condition of the property provided there are no
conditions that aﬀect the safety, soundness, or structural integrity of the property. If those conditions do exist,
the property must be appraised subject to completion of the speciﬁc alterations or repairs (“as repaired”) and a
completion report must be obtained from the appraiser prior to delivery of the mortgage to Fannie Mae.
Delivery
Loans originated in accordance with this section must be delivered to Fannie Mae no later than two years from
the date of the disaster declaration by FEMA.
Special Feature Codes
Loans delivered under these guidelines must include SFC 416 as part of the delivery data.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-08 October 08, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Published June 3, 2026
763
B5-4.2-03, Loans Secured by HomePath Properties (05/07/2025)
Introduction
This topic describes exceptions to standard policies that are permitted for HomePath properties and delivery
requirements, including:
Eligibility Exceptions for HomePath Properties
Interested Party Contributions
Certain Resale Restrictions
Special Feature Code for HomePath Properties using the IPC Exception
Loan-level Price Adjustment Credit for Appraisals
Eligibility Exceptions for HomePath Properties
A HomePath property is a property that was owned and sold by Fannie Mae through a transaction resulting in
the disposition of its real estate owned (REO). When the property secured by the mortgage is a HomePath
property, Fannie Mae will allow certain exceptions to standard Selling Guide eligibility policies as described
below.
Interested Party Contributions
In cases where the subject property is a HomePath property, an exception to the maximum ﬁnancing
concessions for principal residences is permitted, as described in the table below. All other requirements related
to IPCs, as described in B3-4.1-02, Interested Party Contributions (IPCs), continue to apply.
Occupancy Type LTV/CLTV Ratio Maximum Financing
Concessions
Principal Residence Greater than 90% 6%
Note: DU will issue a message if the amount of the IPC appears to exceed the standard ﬁnancing
concessions described in B3-4.1-02, Interested Party Contributions (IPCs). (DU does not apply the
higher limit even if DU identiﬁes the property as a HomePath property.) The lender must determine
whether the subject transaction is a purchase of a HomePath property eligible for the higher ﬁnancing
concessions and document the loan ﬁle accordingly.
Certain Resale Restrictions
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Selling Guide, loans subject to resale restrictions imposed by Fannie
Mae as the seller of its REO property are eligible.
Published June 3, 2026
764
Special Feature Code for HomePath Properties using the IPC Exception
Lenders must use SFC 679 when delivering a loan secured by a HomePath property if the IPC exception applies
to the transaction. This code is in addition to any other special feature codes that may apply. SFC 679 is not
required for a loan secured by a HomePath property that is subject solely to the resale restriction exception.
Loan-level Price Adjustment Credit for Appraisals
The lender will receive a $500 loan-level price adjustment credit when Fannie Mae purchases a loan secured by
a HomePath property. The following requirements apply:
The loan must be a purchase transaction for a principal residence underwritten with DU.
The lender must obtain an appraisal for the transaction and pass the entire credit to the borrower to
cover the cost of the appraisal.
The lender must conﬁrm the seller of the property is Fannie Mae (even though DU may identify the
property as a HomePath property).
The loan must be delivered with SFC 871.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-03 May 07, 2025
Announcement SEL-2022-01 February 02, 2022
 
Chapter B5-5, Community Seconds, Loans with Resale
Restrictions, and Shared Equity Transactions
Introduction
This chapter describes product policies and requirements for Community Seconds, loans with resale restrictions,
and shared equity transactions.