SECTION: B5-4.2-02
TITLE: Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Refinance Flexibilities
EFFECTIVE: 10/08/2025
PAGES: 778-780
---
Published June 3, 2026
760
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B5-4.2-02, Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities
(10/08/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on disaster-related limited cash-out reﬁnance ﬂexibilities, including:
Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities Overview
Location of Property
Occupancy Status
Transaction Types
Documentation of Eligible Disaster-Related Expenses and Financing
Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance DU Requirements
Appraisal Requirements
Delivery
Special Feature Codes
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities Overview
Fannie Mae provides ﬂexibilities to standard limited cash-out reﬁnance policies for borrowers who have been
impacted by a natural disaster. These guidelines:
permit the reﬁnance of non-purchase money subordinate loans obtained to ﬁnance disaster-related
property repairs, and
provide for a higher cash-out amount to reimburse borrowers for documented out-of-pocket expenses
related to disaster-related property repairs.
This topic outlines the speciﬁc eligibility requirements for these additional ﬂexibilities.
Location of Property
These ﬂexibilities may be applied to loans on properties located in any counties, cities, or parishes that are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as eligible for Individual Assistance as a
result of a natural disaster (these areas are referred to as “FEMA Disaster Areas”).
Occupancy Status
These guidelines are applicable only to loans secured by the borrower’s principal residence, and may not be
used in connection with second homes or investment properties.
Published June 3, 2026
761
Transaction Types
A borrower may obtain:
a limited cash-out reﬁnance to consolidate non-purchase money subordinate ﬁnancing used for repair of
disaster-related property damage to their principal residence. To be eligible, the subordinate ﬁnancing,
including any draws on an existing HELOC, must post-date the disaster. However, the borrower may pay
oﬀ the entire HELOC through the limited cash-out reﬁnance, provided that a portion of the amount was
used for disaster-related expenses to repair property damage to the principal residence.
cash-out for reimbursement of documented out-of-pocket expenses for the completed repair of disaster-
related property damage to their principal residence in an amount not to exceed the lesser of 10% of the
balance of the new reﬁnance loan or $15,000.
All existing guidelines and requirements for limited cash-out reﬁnance transactions listed in this section
continue to apply, including those for Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans (see B5-4.1-01, Texas Section 50(a)(6)
Loans).
Documentation of Eligible Disaster-Related Expenses and Financing
The lender must document that the subordinate ﬁnancing (or a portion of the HELOC) or the entire requested
cash-out amount represents funds used for completed disaster-related property repairs.
Generally, documentation includes copies of receipts, work orders, canceled checks, etc., related to the cost of
materials and labor.
The borrower may not receive any reimbursement for amounts representing their sweat equity in connection
with the repairs.
Note: All documentation must post-date the disaster and be directly related to completed repairs of
damage to the property resulting from the disaster.
Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance DU Requirements
Certain messages on the DU Underwriting Findings Report will not apply to loans originated under the disaster-
related limited cash-out reﬁnance requirements.
When the loan complies with the requirements of this section, lenders may disregard the following messages:
This case is ineligible because the amount of cash taken out of the subject property equity exceeds the
limit of the greater of 1% of the loan amount or $2,000 for limited cash-out reﬁnances.
If any subordinate lien that was not used to acquire the subject property is to be paid oﬀ with ﬁrst
mortgage proceeds, the loan is ineligible as a limited cash-out reﬁnance. The loan must be resubmitted
as a cash-out reﬁnance.
If subordinate liens are being paid oﬀ with the ﬁrst mortgage proceeds, obtain written documentation
that the subordinate lien was used to acquire the subject property.
Fannie Mae will grant the lender the limited waiver of underwriting representations and warranties for these
Published June 3, 2026
762
loans, including those mortgages that receive an Approve/Ineligible recommendation, provided the loan meets
the requirements contained in this section as well as those contained in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and
Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties.
Appraisal Requirements
The appraisal for the property must follow standard requirements contained in Chapter B4–1, Appraisal
Guidelines.
Those guidelines allow an appraisal to be based on the “as is” condition of the property provided there are no
conditions that aﬀect the safety, soundness, or structural integrity of the property. If those conditions do exist,
the property must be appraised subject to completion of the speciﬁc alterations or repairs (“as repaired”) and a
completion report must be obtained from the appraiser prior to delivery of the mortgage to Fannie Mae.
Delivery
Loans originated in accordance with this section must be delivered to Fannie Mae no later than two years from
the date of the disaster declaration by FEMA.
Special Feature Codes
Loans delivered under these guidelines must include SFC 416 as part of the delivery data.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-08 October 08, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025