SECTION: B5-4.1-01
TITLE: Texas Section 50(a)(6) Loans
EFFECTIVE: 12/19/2017
PAGES: 768-770
---
Published June 3, 2026
750
Chapter B5-4, Property-Speciﬁc Products
Introduction
This chapter describes the policies and requirements for property-speciﬁc products.
Section B5-4.1, General Requirements of Texas Section 50(a)(6) Loans
B5-4.1-01, Texas Section 50(a)(6) Loans (12/19/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans, including:
Overview
Lender Eligibility
Loan Origination and Compliance
Lender Certiﬁcation
Lender’s and Servicer’s Obligations to Maintain Procedures for Curing Violations
Overview
A Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan is a loan originated in accordance with and secured by a lien permitted under the
provisions of Article XVI, Section 50(a)(6), of the Texas Constitution, which allow a borrower to take equity out of
a homestead property under certain conditions.
Lender Eligibility
Unless otherwise notiﬁed in writing, all lenders are eligible to sell and/or service Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans as
long as the lender meets the eligibility criteria speciﬁed in Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6). A lender that
intends to sell Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans originated by a third-party originator is also responsible for ensuring
that the originating lender qualiﬁes as an “authorized lender” under Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6).
Loan Origination and Compliance
In addition to Fannie Mae's other origination and compliance requirements for Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans in
Published June 3, 2026
751
this chapter, lender agrees to the following:
✓ Requirement
 The borrower’s ﬁrst payment must be due no later than two months after closing.
 
For purposes of the compliance with the acknowledgment of the "fair market value" of the
homestead property requirement, the "fair market value" must be based on an appraisal and
the appraisal must be attached to the written acknowledgment. See B5-4.1-03, Texas Section
50(a)(6) Loan Underwriting, Collateral, and Closing Considerations for Fannie Mae's appraisal
requirements.
 
The proceeds from a Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan must not be used to acquire or improve the
homestead if a loan for that purpose could have been made under a diﬀerent provision of the
Texas Constitution.
Fannie Mae has no other restrictions on the use of the loan proceeds.
 
If the new loan is a Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan reﬁnance transaction originated to cure a
failure in the original loan to comply with Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6), then the new
loan is eligible for sale to Fannie Mae provided that it complies in all respects with Fannie
Mae’s requirements. However, unless a reﬁnance transaction has been completed to cure a
failure in the original loan transaction to comply with Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6), a
Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan is ineligible for sale to Fannie Mae if the lender has either
identiﬁed or been notiﬁed by the borrower of a failure to comply, whether or not there has
already been a cure or an attempt to cure the failure to comply.
 
DU does not contain the speciﬁc eligibility rules needed to determine eligibility of Texas
Section 50(a)(6) loans under Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6) or the Selling Guide.
Lenders must determine whether reﬁnance loans secured by properties in Texas are eligible
for sale to Fannie Mae, and should be aware that even though a loan may receive an “Eligible”
recommendation, the loan may not comply with Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6) or be
eligible for delivery according to Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6) or the Selling Guide.
Lender Certiﬁcation
By sale of a Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan to Fannie Mae, the lender represents, warrants, and certiﬁes that with
respect to all of the Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans delivered to Fannie Mae, whether or not originated by the
lender:
All Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans were originated pursuant to written processes and procedures that
comply with the provisions of the Texas Constitution applicable to mortgage loans.
The lender has in place a speciﬁc process for the receipt, handling, and monitoring of notices from
Published June 3, 2026
752
borrowers that lender (or the mortgage originator, if lender is the servicer but not the originator) failed to
comply with the provisions of the law applicable to Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans. Such process must be
adequate to ensure that the lender will correct the failure to comply by one of the authorized means no
later than the 60th day after the date the lender is notiﬁed of the failure to comply by the borrower.
An attorney familiar with the provisions of Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6) was consulted in
connection with the development and implementation of the processes and procedures used for the
origination of the Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans.
To ensure ongoing compliance with the law applicable to loans authorized by Texas Constitution Section
50(a)(6), the processes and procedures used for the origination of the Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans will be
reviewed by the lender regularly and will be updated and revised, as appropriate pursuant to
clariﬁcations of the law, on a regular and continual basis.
Lender’s and Servicer’s Obligations to Maintain Procedures for Curing Violations
Lenders and servicers must have speciﬁc processes in place to cure any failure to comply with Texas
Constitution Section 50(a)(6) identiﬁed with respect to a loan sold to or serviced on behalf of Fannie Mae by one
of the authorized means, as required by the “Lender Certiﬁcation” requirements described above. A lender’s or
servicer’s failure to cure within 60 days after being notiﬁed of a failure to comply may, under Texas law, result
in the forfeiture of all principal and interest due under the Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan. However, any action
taken, or not taken, in connection with a failure to comply with Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6), even if such
action is a result of the lender’s or servicer’s eﬀort to cure a failure to comply, that results in any of the
following constitutes a breach of the lender’s selling representations and warranties and/or servicing obligations
and requirements:
a forfeiture of any principal or interest due under the mortgage loan;
invalidation of the mortgage as a ﬁrst lien;
abatement of accrual of interest and the borrower’s obligations under the mortgage loan;
reduction in the principal amount of the mortgage loan; or
any modiﬁcation of the amount, interest rate, term, or other provision of the mortgage loan.
Such action, taken or not taken, shall be deemed a failure to correct a signiﬁcant defect and/or a servicing
defect that permits Fannie Mae to exercise any of the remedies provided in the Lender Contract, including the
right to require repurchase of the loan.
If the lender or servicer receives notice from a borrower that a lender (or the mortgage originator, if the lender
or the servicer is not the originator) failed to comply with Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6), the lender or
servicer must immediately, but no later than seven business days after receipt, take the following actions:
inform Fannie Mae’s Legal department by submitting a Non-Routine Litigation (Form 20) and include the
borrower notice in its submission; and,
collaborate with Fannie Mae on the appropriate response, including any cure that may be necessary,
within the 60-day-time frame provided by the requirements of Texas Constitution Section 50(a)(6).
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.