SECTION: B5-4.2-01
TITLE: Native American Conventional Lending Initiative (NACLI)
EFFECTIVE: 06/26/2012
PAGES: 777-778
---
Published June 3, 2026
759
B5-4.2-01, Native American Conventional Lending Initiative (NACLI)
(06/26/2012)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Native American Conventional Lending Initiative (NACLI), including:
Overview
Lender Eligibility
Eligibility Requirements
Special Feature Codes
Overview
As part of Fannie Mae’s commitment to oﬀering conventional loan products to address special housing needs of
the underserved, Fannie Mae developed its set of Native American conventional Housing Initiatives.
Through these initiatives, Fannie Mae purchases conventional mortgages that are made to Native Americans.
Lender Eligibility
Any lender that is interested in participating in NACLI must obtain separate approval from Fannie Mae.
Upon approval, the lender will obtain the applicable set of terms and conditions that may vary for the speciﬁc
tribal community.
Eligibility Requirements
Tribes that have jurisdiction over lands restricted to tribal members are eligible.
Before any lending may take place, a tribe’s ordinances must be reviewed to ensure that there is appropriate
support for mortgage lending. This includes Fannie Mae’s conﬁrmation that the tribe has appropriate ordinances
involving such issues as the recording of mortgages, resale, lien priority, foreclosure, and eviction.
Special Feature Codes
A lender must report SFC 221 for a mortgage originated under NACLI when it delivers a mortgage originated
under Fannie Mae’s Native American Housing Initiatives.
In addition, the lender should report all other applicable special feature codes that are needed to describe other
special mortgage characteristics.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
760
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B5-4.2-02, Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities
(10/08/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on disaster-related limited cash-out reﬁnance ﬂexibilities, including:
Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities Overview
Location of Property
Occupancy Status
Transaction Types
Documentation of Eligible Disaster-Related Expenses and Financing
Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance DU Requirements
Appraisal Requirements
Delivery
Special Feature Codes
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Disaster-Related Limited Cash-Out Reﬁnance Flexibilities Overview
Fannie Mae provides ﬂexibilities to standard limited cash-out reﬁnance policies for borrowers who have been
impacted by a natural disaster. These guidelines:
permit the reﬁnance of non-purchase money subordinate loans obtained to ﬁnance disaster-related
property repairs, and
provide for a higher cash-out amount to reimburse borrowers for documented out-of-pocket expenses
related to disaster-related property repairs.
This topic outlines the speciﬁc eligibility requirements for these additional ﬂexibilities.
Location of Property
These ﬂexibilities may be applied to loans on properties located in any counties, cities, or parishes that are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as eligible for Individual Assistance as a
result of a natural disaster (these areas are referred to as “FEMA Disaster Areas”).
Occupancy Status
These guidelines are applicable only to loans secured by the borrower’s principal residence, and may not be
used in connection with second homes or investment properties.