SECTION: B5-5.1-02
TITLE: Community Seconds Loan Eligibility
EFFECTIVE: 05/03/2023
PAGES: 784-789
---
Published June 3, 2026
766
✓ The lender must...
 
Conﬁrm the program allows the holder of the ﬁrst mortgage to foreclose and acquire title to the
property free and clear of all interests of the Community Seconds provider. 
Note: If a Community Seconds provider assumes the ﬁrst mortgage and cures all outstanding
defaults under that mortgage, the Community Seconds ﬁnancing may be maintained.
 
If applicable, evaluate any recorded deed restrictions or option agreements, or local ordinances
that impose similar restrictions, to conﬁrm compliance with other Fannie Mae policies, such as
those applicable to resale restrictions (see Section B5-5.2, Loans with Resale Restrictions and
Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions).
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
B5-5.1-02, Community Seconds Loan Eligibility (05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information regarding Community Seconds loan eligibility, including:
Eligible Community Seconds Providers
Acceptable Uses
Additional Eligibility Requirements
Rural Development Section 502 Leveraged (Blended) Loan Program
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
Repayment Structure
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Eligible Community Seconds Providers
Published June 3, 2026
767
A Community Seconds loan must only be funded by one of the following entities:
a federal agency, state, county, or similar political subdivision of a state;
any city, town, village, or borough of a state that
has a local government and that has been created by a special legislative act, 
has been otherwise individually incorporated or chartered pursuant to state law, or
is recognized as such under the constitution or by the laws of the state in which it is located;
a housing ﬁnance agency as deﬁned in 24 C.F.R. §266.5;
a nonproﬁt organization exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
a regional Federal Home Loan Bank under one of its aﬀordable housing programs;
an employer where a borrower is an employee (see  B3-4.3-08, Employer Assistance);
a lender, only in connection with an employer-guaranteed Community Seconds loan as part of its
aﬀordable housing program; or
an Indian tribe on the most current list published by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 25 U.S.C.
§5131.
Note: A corporation or other legal entity created by or owned in whole or in part by such an Indian
tribe is not eligible unless it qualiﬁes as a Tribally Designated Housing Entity, as deﬁned in 25 U.S.C.
§4103(22).
A Community Seconds provider must not be the property seller or other interested party in the transaction,
except when they are the provider of a shared equity program or sweat equity program. See  B5-5.3-03, Shared
Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and Collateral Requirements  and B5-6-02, HomeReady Mortgage
Underwriting Methods and Requirements.
Acceptable Uses
A Community Seconds loan must be used to fund one or more of the following:
all or part of the down payment, provided the Community Seconds loan is not funded in any way through
the ﬁrst mortgage, such as premium pricing;
closing costs;
renovations to the property (including energy-related improvements); or
a permanent interest rate buydown.
In some cases, a Community Seconds loan may not involve the advancement of funds, but instead may
facilitate aﬀordability through a subsidized sales price and/or requirements related to the future sale of the
home. The eligible provider may secure a Community Seconds loan against the property representing the
diﬀerence between the market value and reduced sales price accepted by the seller (referred to as the subsidy).
Typically, the subordinate loan has deferred payments and may be forgiven. The subordinate loan may also
enforce requirements that prevent the borrower from selling the property outside of the conﬁnes of the
program. The terms of the loan may not, however, restrict the sale of the property upon foreclosure or
acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. 
When a subsidy is provided, the lender may use the Aﬀordable LTV calculation described in  B5-5.3-03,
Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and Collateral Requirements.
When a subsidy is provided and the property has resale restrictions that limit both income eligibility and
impose a maximum resale price, the provisions in Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions also apply.
Published June 3, 2026
768
Additional Eligibility Requirements
The following table provides additional eligibility requirements for Community Seconds loans originated in
connection with a ﬁrst mortgage purchased by Fannie Mae.
Criteria Requirements
First mortgage
eligibility
The ﬁrst mortgage must be ﬁxed-rate or an ARM with an initial ﬁxed-rate period of ﬁve years or more, and
otherwise comply with this Guide.
Maximum LTV and
CLTV ratios
The maximum LTV is based on the ﬁrst mortgage LTV requirement.
The maximum CLTV is 105% with a Community Seconds loan, unless the ﬁrst mortgage has an independent
CLTV cap (such as the CLTV cap for manufactured housing that does not meet MH Advantage
requirements). Refer to the   Eligibility Matrix for additional information.
Loan purpose
The transaction is limited to a purchase or limited cash-out reﬁnance.
For a limited cash-out reﬁnance, the Community Seconds mortgage holder must acknowledge their lien
position by executing a resubordination agreement. The agreement must be recorded to ensure
enforceability.
Property and
occupancy 
The subject property must be a one- to four-unit principal residence.
If the loan is secured by a manufactured home, it must comply with all manufactured home policies
including LTV and CLTV ratio requirements.
Income limits
If income limits are imposed by both the Community Seconds provider and the ﬁrst mortgage, the more
restrictive will apply.  
Note:  Loans secured by community land trusts properties and properties with income and resale
price restrictions have additional requirements. See  B5-5.3-03, Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility,
Underwriting and Collateral Requirements.
Rural Development Section 502 Leveraged (Blended) Loan Program
A subordinate lien originated in connection with a conventional ﬁrst mortgage under the RD Section 502
Leveraged (Blended) Loan Program is eligible for the Community Seconds program. The standard review of
Community Seconds programs described in B5-5.1-01, Community Seconds Loans, is not required; however, the
subordinate lien must meet all RD Guidelines. See  B6-1-05, Eligible RD-Guaranteed Mortgages for additional
information.
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
The following table describes the minimum borrower contribution requirements for transactions with a
Community Seconds loan.
Published June 3, 2026
769
LTV,
CLTV, or
HCLTV
Ratio
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirement from Borrower's Own Funds
80% or
less
One- to four-unit
principal residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the borrower's own funds is not required. All funds
needed to complete the transaction can come from a Community Seconds loan.
Greater
than 80%
One-unit principal
residence
A minimum borrower contribution from the borrower's own funds is not required. All funds
needed to complete the transaction can come from a Community Seconds loan.
Two- to four-unit
principal residence
The borrower must make a 5% minimum contribution from their own funds. After the minimum
borrower contribution has been met, a Community Seconds loan can be used as described in
Acceptable Uses above. 
Note: See B5-6-02, HomeReady Mortgage Underwriting Methods and Requirements, for additional
information about minimum borrower contribution and down payment requirements, including sweat
equity requirements, for HomeReady loans.
Repayment Structure
Repayment of the Community Seconds loan may be structured in any number of ways provided the terms are
consistent with those Fannie Mae considers acceptable. This includes:
requiring fully amortizing, equal monthly payments;
deferring payments for some period before changing to fully amortizing, equal monthly payments;
deferring payments over the entire term, unless the loan is paid oﬀ or the property is sold before the
maturity date of the loan; or
forgiving debt over time.
When the borrower's employer is the provider of the Community Seconds loan, the ﬁnancing terms may provide
for the employer to require full repayment of the debt if the borrower's employment is terminated (either
voluntarily or involuntarily, for reasons other than those related to disability) before the maturity date of the
Community Seconds loan.
When repayment is required, the maturity date of the Community Seconds loan, or the due date of any balloon
payment on the Community Seconds loan, cannot be before the earlier of:
15 years after the note date of the ﬁrst mortgage, or
the maturity date of the ﬁrst mortgage.
When repayment of the Community Seconds loan is deferred for ﬁve years or more, a lender is not required to
include a monthly payment for the Community Seconds loan in its calculation of the borrower's debt-to-income
ratio. When repayment is deferred for fewer than ﬁve years, the lender must include the monthly payment
amount that will be required after the end of the deferral period in its calculation.
The Community Seconds loan must be a ﬁxed-rate loan and the interest rate may not be more than 2% (200
basis points) higher than the initial note rate of the ﬁrst mortgage.
Note: Interest that is imposed as a penalty should the loan be declared in default and called due and
Published June 3, 2026
770
payable under its terms is not subject to this interest rate cap.
The Community Seconds loan may not allow for negative amortization, however, because negative amortization
will occur if the interest rate is greater than zero and the payment of interest is ever deferred, negative
amortization will be acceptable provided:
the amount of scheduled monthly interest deferred on the Community Seconds loan for any full calendar
month within the initial ﬁve years (of the Community Seconds loan) may never exceed the scheduled
monthly principal payment of the ﬁrst mortgage for that month (see below for an example);
interest is accrued on a simple-interest basis at a ﬁxed rate; and
the accrued interest is fully deferred until
sale or transfer of the property,
the loan is reﬁnanced or the ﬁrst mortgage is paid in full, or
declaration of an event of default under the subordinate note or the security instrument.
Example
In the following example, the ﬁrst mortgage is eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae as the amount of deferred,
accrued interest for July on the Community Seconds loan is less than the scheduled principal payment for the
ﬁrst mortgage for the same month.
Note date: May 
First payment date: July First Mortgage Community Seconds Loan
UPB $150,000 $30,000
Interest rate 5% 7%
Maximum accrued, deferred interest
July NA $175.00 ($30,000 @ 7% /12)
Scheduled principal payment July $180.23 NA
 
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Special Feature Codes and Other Reporting
The lender must report SFC 118 and all other applicable special feature codes when it delivers a ﬁrst mortgage
that is originated as part of a Community Seconds transaction.
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Loan-level price adjustments otherwise applicable to subordinate ﬁnancing do not apply.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
771
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
B5-5.1-03, Community Seconds: Shared Appreciation Transactions
(11/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on shared appreciation transactions, including:
Overview
Provider Requirements
Eligibility
Repayment Distribution Requirements
Delivery Requirements
Overview
Shared appreciation programs are a type of Community Seconds oﬀering that create aﬀordability for eligible
borrowers by providing down payment, closing cost assistance, and/or funding for renovations to the property,
including energy-related improvements, in exchange for repayment of an interest-free loan and a share in any
future appreciation to the property. The program provider receives the original amount advanced and a
predetermined percentage of any appreciation in value upon the occurrence of speciﬁed events deﬁned in the
program's legal documentation. Events may include the subsequent sale (or other transfer) of the home and be
dependent on the availability of funds.
Appreciation in value is deﬁned as the positive diﬀerence between the original sales price of the property and
the subsequent value of the property determined in accordance with the shared appreciation program's legal
documents (which may but is not required to take into account amounts paid by the borrower to improve the
property with the knowledge or consent of the shared appreciation program).
Note: This topic pertains only to shared appreciation loans. For information on shared equity
transactions, see Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions.
Provider Requirements
The provider of a shared appreciation loan must
be an eligible Community Seconds provider,