SECTION: B5-5.1-01
TITLE: Community Seconds Loans
EFFECTIVE: 05/03/2023
PAGES: 783-784
---
Published June 3, 2026
765
Section B5-5.1, Community Seconds
B5-5.1-01, Community Seconds Loans (05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Community Seconds loans, including:
Overview
Review of Community Seconds Programs
Overview
A Community Seconds loan is subordinate ﬁnancing that is originated under an aﬀordable housing program.
Fannie Mae does not purchase Community Seconds loans; however, ﬁrst mortgages that are originated with this
type of subordinate ﬁnancing are eligible for purchase by Fannie Mae in accordance with the requirements of
this Guide.
Review of Community Seconds Programs
The lender is responsible for reviewing Community Seconds programs to ensure the programs comply with this
Guide. The Community Seconds Checklist includes a checklist that lenders may use to evaluate key
considerations in determining whether to grant approval of a Community Seconds program. 
The following table provides lender requirements for reviewing a Community Seconds program.
✓ The lender must...
 
Review all documents applicable to the program, including the legal documents (such as the
promissory note and the security instrument), the program description, and any other pertinent
documents to conﬁrm compliance with Section B5-5.1, Community Seconds.
 
Determine the mortgage for the Community Seconds loan is clearly subordinate to the ﬁrst
mortgage. The title insurance in eﬀect must ensure priority of the ﬁrst mortgage being delivered to
Fannie Mae by showing the Community Seconds loan in a subordinate position.
Published June 3, 2026
766
✓ The lender must...
 
Conﬁrm the program allows the holder of the ﬁrst mortgage to foreclose and acquire title to the
property free and clear of all interests of the Community Seconds provider. 
Note: If a Community Seconds provider assumes the ﬁrst mortgage and cures all outstanding
defaults under that mortgage, the Community Seconds ﬁnancing may be maintained.
 
If applicable, evaluate any recorded deed restrictions or option agreements, or local ordinances
that impose similar restrictions, to conﬁrm compliance with other Fannie Mae policies, such as
those applicable to resale restrictions (see Section B5-5.2, Loans with Resale Restrictions and
Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions).
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
B5-5.1-02, Community Seconds Loan Eligibility (05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information regarding Community Seconds loan eligibility, including:
Eligible Community Seconds Providers
Acceptable Uses
Additional Eligibility Requirements
Rural Development Section 502 Leveraged (Blended) Loan Program
Minimum Borrower Contribution Requirements
Repayment Structure
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Eligible Community Seconds Providers