SECTION: B5-5.2-01
TITLE: Loans With Resale Restrictions: General Information
EFFECTIVE: 05/03/2023
PAGES: 793-794
---
Published June 3, 2026
775
Section B5-5.2, Loans with Resale Restrictions
B5-5.2-01, Loans With Resale Restrictions: General Information
(05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on loans with resale restrictions, including:
Overview
Allowable Resale Restrictions
Duration of Resale Restrictions
Title Insurance Requirements
Default Remedies
Rights to Insurance Settlements and Condemnation Proceeds
Overview
Resale restrictions are a right in perpetuity or for a certain number of years, stated in the form of a restriction,
easement, covenant, or condition in any deed, mortgage, ground lease, agreement, or other instrument
executed by or on behalf of the owner of the land. The resale restrictions may limit the occupancy of all or part
of the land to individuals meeting certain conditions, such as age (senior communities must comply with
applicable law). When resale restrictions are included in a mortgage, the terms must comply with this Guide.
Note: This topic does not pertain to loans that are part of shared equity transactions, which have
resale restrictions that limit both income eligibility and impose a maximum resale price. See Section
B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions for additional information.
Allowable Resale Restrictions
Fannie Mae will purchase loans that are subject to one or more of the following types of resale restrictions:
income limits,
age-related requirements,
employment-related requirements,
occupancy requirements, 
ﬁrst-time homebuyer requirements, and
restrictions on group homes or homes that are principally used to serve residents with disabilities.
Some restrictions are likely to occur only in combination with others and it is permissible for more than one
Published June 3, 2026
776
resale restriction to apply to a single loan.
Duration of Resale Restrictions
Fannie Mae will purchase loans secured by properties subject to resale restrictions in the following
circumstances:
when the restrictions terminate automatically upon foreclosure (or the expiration of any applicable
redemption period),
upon the recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or
when the resale restrictions survive foreclosure.
Note: If the resale restrictions survive foreclosure, the lender represents and warrants that the resale
restrictions do not impair the servicer's ability to foreclose on the restricted property.
There are no restrictions on the length of the period in which the resale restrictions may remain in place on the
property.
Title Insurance Requirements
The source and terms of the resale restrictions must be included in the public land records so that they are
readily identiﬁable in a routine title search.
Default Remedies
The presence of resale restrictions must not impair Fannie Mae's legal rights to cure a default under the loan
terms, to foreclose on the subject property, or to otherwise protect Fannie Mae's interests under the mortgage.
Rights to Insurance Settlements and Condemnation Proceeds
Fannie Mae must have ﬁrst claim to insurance settlements and condemnation proceeds.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 