SECTION: B5-5.3-01
TITLE: Shared Equity Overview
EFFECTIVE: 02/05/2025
PAGES: 796-798
---
Published June 3, 2026
778
"This appraisal is made on the basis of a hypothetical condition that the property rights being appraised are
without resale and other restrictions that are terminated automatically upon the latter of foreclosure or the
expiration of any applicable redemption period, or upon recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure."
In cases where the resale restrictions survive foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, the appraisal must
reﬂect the impact the restrictions have on value and be supported by comparable sales with similar restrictions.
The appraisal report must note the existence of the resale restrictions and comment on any impact the resale
restrictions have on the property's value and marketability.
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Pricing
There are no speciﬁc LLPAs required for loans with resale restrictions. All other price adjustments that are
otherwise applicable to the transaction will apply. For a list of current applicable LLPAs, see the  Loan-Level Price
Adjustment (LLPA) Matrix .
Special Feature Codes
Lenders must report SFC 631 when delivering a loan secured by a property with resale restrictions that survive
foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
No special feature code is required when delivering a loan secured by a property with resale restrictions that
terminate automatically upon foreclosure (or the expiration of any applicable redemption period), or the
recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure unless the loan is part of a shared equity transaction. See B5-5.3-03,
Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and Collateral Requirements  for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions
Published June 3, 2026
779
B5-5.3-01, Shared Equity Overview (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on shared equity transactions, including:
Overview
Community Land Trusts
Income and Resale Price Restrictions
Overview
Shared equity programs, sometimes called "below-market programs," create long-term aﬀordability by both
limiting income eligibility and imposing a maximum resale price (or a resale formula applies that limits the
homeowner's proceeds upon resale). Shared equity providers typically make a one-time investment in a
property by subsidizing the sales price for the ﬁrst buyer and recycling the subsidy for subsequent, income-
eligible buyers of the same property. In exchange for purchasing a home below market value, the homeowners
agree to restrictions on the future sale of the home, including limitations on sales price or proceeds that
maintain aﬀordability for the next buyer.
Loans originated in connection with the following shared equity programs are eligible for purchase by Fannie
Mae:
community land trusts,
income and resale price restrictions,
limited or shared equity co-ops.
It is against Fannie Mae policy to compel borrowers to participate in arbitration to resolve disputes regarding
their mortgage loan. See  B8-3-02, Special Note Provisions and Language Requirements. Similarly, Fannie Mae
will not purchase shared equity loans where the borrower is required to submit to arbitration to resolve disputes
with the shared equity program unless the mandatory arbitration provision provides, or is amended to provide,
that, in the event of a transfer or sale of the related mortgage or an interest in the related mortgage loan to
Fannie Mae, the mandatory arbitration clause immediately and automatically becomes null and void and cannot
be reinstated. This does not prohibit the borrower and the shared equity program from engaging voluntarily in
arbitration, mediation, or other alternative methods of dispute resolution.
Note: This topic focuses on community land trusts and income and resale price restrictions. For
information on limited or shared equity co-ops, see B4-2.1-03, Ineligible Projects.
Community Land Trusts
Community land trusts preserve long-term aﬀordable housing by purchasing homes in their communities, then
selling the homes to income-eligible buyers while retaining ownership of the land. The homeowners lease the
land from the community land trust using a long-term ground lease with aﬀordable monthly ground rents. The
ground lease includes provisions that preserve long-term aﬀordability, including restrictions on the future sales
Published June 3, 2026
780
price of the home and income levels of future homeowners.
Income and Resale Price Restrictions
Resale restrictions are a right in perpetuity or for a certain number of years and are binding on current and
future property owners. They remain in eﬀect until they are formally removed or modiﬁed, or terminate in
accordance with their terms, such as at a foreclosure sale or upon acceptance of a deed-in-lieu.
Income and resale price restrictions help maintain long-term aﬀordability for shared equity programs. These
programs include both an income and a maximum resale price restriction that eﬀectively subsidize the sales
prices for income-eligible buyers, and in exchange for the subsidy, the buyers agree to resale restrictions that
limit the future sales price of the home to preserve aﬀordability for future income-eligible buyers.
For information on other types of resale restrictions, see  B5-5.2-01, Loans With Resale Restrictions: General
Information  and B5-5.2-02, Loans with Resale Restrictions: Eligibility, Collateral and Delivery Requirements.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-11 December 13, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
B5-5.3-02, Shared Equity Transactions: General Requirements
(02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on shared equity transactions, including:
General Requirements
Rights to Insurance Settlements and Condemnation Proceeds
Notiﬁcation to Third Parties