SECTION: B5-5.2-02
TITLE: Loans with Resale Restrictions: Eligibility, Collateral and Delivery Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 05/03/2023
PAGES: 794-796
---
Published June 3, 2026
776
resale restriction to apply to a single loan.
Duration of Resale Restrictions
Fannie Mae will purchase loans secured by properties subject to resale restrictions in the following
circumstances:
when the restrictions terminate automatically upon foreclosure (or the expiration of any applicable
redemption period),
upon the recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or
when the resale restrictions survive foreclosure.
Note: If the resale restrictions survive foreclosure, the lender represents and warrants that the resale
restrictions do not impair the servicer's ability to foreclose on the restricted property.
There are no restrictions on the length of the period in which the resale restrictions may remain in place on the
property.
Title Insurance Requirements
The source and terms of the resale restrictions must be included in the public land records so that they are
readily identiﬁable in a routine title search.
Default Remedies
The presence of resale restrictions must not impair Fannie Mae's legal rights to cure a default under the loan
terms, to foreclose on the subject property, or to otherwise protect Fannie Mae's interests under the mortgage.
Rights to Insurance Settlements and Condemnation Proceeds
Fannie Mae must have ﬁrst claim to insurance settlements and condemnation proceeds.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
Published June 3, 2026
777
B5-5.2-02, Loans with Resale Restrictions: Eligibility, Collateral and
Delivery Requirements (05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information on loans with resale restrictions loan and borrower eligibility, collateral and
delivery requirements including:
Eligibility Requirements
Appraisal Requirements
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Eligibility Requirements
The following table describes the eligibility requirements for loans with resale restrictions.
Criteria Requirements
Loan Eligibility The loan must be a ﬁxed-rate or ARM with an initial ﬁxed period of ﬁve years or more
and must comply with this Guide.
Borrower Eligibility
Borrowers must meet applicable criteria of the deed restriction.
If income limit requirements are imposed by both the resale restrictions and the terms
of the mortgage, the most restrictive will apply.
Note: Age-related restrictions generally apply to the unit occupant and frequently
require only one occupant to be aged 55 and over. In such a case, the borrower could
be younger than 55 provided there is a unit occupant aged 55 and over. This
occupant can be a non-borrower household member or a renter in the case of an
investment property.
Property Type
One- and two-unit properties are eligible, including PUDs, condos, and co-ops.
Manufactured homes are not eligible unless they are located in a PERS-approved
project.
Appraisal Requirements
In cases where the resale restrictions terminate automatically upon foreclosure (or the expiration of any
applicable redemption period), or upon recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, the appraisal should reﬂect
the market value of the property without resale restrictions.
The lender must ensure that the borrower and appraiser are aware of the resale restrictions and should advise
the appraiser that they must include the following statement in the appraisal report:
Published June 3, 2026
778
"This appraisal is made on the basis of a hypothetical condition that the property rights being appraised are
without resale and other restrictions that are terminated automatically upon the latter of foreclosure or the
expiration of any applicable redemption period, or upon recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure."
In cases where the resale restrictions survive foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, the appraisal must
reﬂect the impact the restrictions have on value and be supported by comparable sales with similar restrictions.
The appraisal report must note the existence of the resale restrictions and comment on any impact the resale
restrictions have on the property's value and marketability.
Pricing and Delivery Considerations
Pricing
There are no speciﬁc LLPAs required for loans with resale restrictions. All other price adjustments that are
otherwise applicable to the transaction will apply. For a list of current applicable LLPAs, see the  Loan-Level Price
Adjustment (LLPA) Matrix .
Special Feature Codes
Lenders must report SFC 631 when delivering a loan secured by a property with resale restrictions that survive
foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
No special feature code is required when delivering a loan secured by a property with resale restrictions that
terminate automatically upon foreclosure (or the expiration of any applicable redemption period), or the
recordation of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure unless the loan is part of a shared equity transaction. See B5-5.3-03,
Shared Equity Transactions: Eligibility, Underwriting and Collateral Requirements  for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-04 May 03, 2023
 
Section B5-5.3, Shared Equity Transactions