SECTION: B5-7-04
TITLE: High LTV Refinance Representations and Warranties
EFFECTIVE: 03/01/2023
PAGES: 833-834
---
Published June 3, 2026
815
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
B5-7-04, High LTV Reﬁnance Representations and Warranties
(03/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the representations and warranties for the high LTV reﬁnance option,
including:
Lender Representations and Warranties
Applicability of the Representation and Warranty Framework
Lender Representations and Warranties
For high LTV reﬁnance loans, lenders are responsible for the standard representations and warranties described
in the Selling Guide, with a number of exceptions as noted below.
For all High LTV Reﬁnances
If the lender obtains an appraisal for the subject property, the lender is not responsible for the standard
representations and warranties related to the marketability and condition of the property as reﬂected in
the property valuation. The lender remains responsible for the appraisal as it pertains to the value.
Lenders may deliver loans on properties with a condition rating of C6 and/or a quality rating of Q6
completed on an “as-is” basis. There is no requirement for the appraisal to be completed “subject
to” repairs being made.
For properties in a project, the lender is not responsible for the standard representations and warranties
related to project eligibility. However, the lender must represent and warrant the property is not a condo
or co-op hotel or motel, houseboat project, or a timeshare or segmented ownership project.
Loans Underwritten in DU
The lender is not responsible for any of the representations and warranties associated with the loan being
reﬁnanced.
Published June 3, 2026
816
The lender is relieved of the standard underwriting representations and warranties (eligibility, credit
history, liabilities, income and asset assessment) with respect to the new mortgage loan if the lender
meets all of the following requirements:
All data in the loan caseﬁle is complete, accurate, and not fraudulent.
The lender follows the instructions in the DU Underwriting Findings report regarding income,
employment, asset, and ﬁeldwork documentation.
The lender complies with all other requirements described in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and
Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties
The lender complies with the requirements described in  A2-2-06, Representations and Warranties on
Property Value.
Manually Underwritten Loans
The lender is not responsible for any of the representations and warranties associated with the loan being
reﬁnanced other than those related to eligibility of the existing loan being reﬁnanced.
The lender must represent and warrant that the new loan meets all the requirements of the high LTV
reﬁnance option as described in this Guide.
Applicability of the Representation and Warranty Framework
High LTV reﬁnance loans are eligible for enforcement relief in accordance with the requirements of A2-3.2-02,
Enforcement Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and
Eligibility.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
B5-7-05, High LTV Reﬁnance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, and
Special Feature Codes (08/07/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the high LTV reﬁnance option, including:
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Mortgage Insurance
Loan Delivery Requirements