SECTION: B5-7-05
TITLE: High LTV Refinance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, and Special Feature Codes
EFFECTIVE: 08/07/2018
PAGES: 834-836
---
Published June 3, 2026
816
The lender is relieved of the standard underwriting representations and warranties (eligibility, credit
history, liabilities, income and asset assessment) with respect to the new mortgage loan if the lender
meets all of the following requirements:
All data in the loan caseﬁle is complete, accurate, and not fraudulent.
The lender follows the instructions in the DU Underwriting Findings report regarding income,
employment, asset, and ﬁeldwork documentation.
The lender complies with all other requirements described in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and
Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties
The lender complies with the requirements described in  A2-2-06, Representations and Warranties on
Property Value.
Manually Underwritten Loans
The lender is not responsible for any of the representations and warranties associated with the loan being
reﬁnanced other than those related to eligibility of the existing loan being reﬁnanced.
The lender must represent and warrant that the new loan meets all the requirements of the high LTV
reﬁnance option as described in this Guide.
Applicability of the Representation and Warranty Framework
High LTV reﬁnance loans are eligible for enforcement relief in accordance with the requirements of A2-3.2-02,
Enforcement Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and
Eligibility.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
B5-7-05, High LTV Reﬁnance Pricing, Mortgage Insurance, and
Special Feature Codes (08/07/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the high LTV reﬁnance option, including:
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
Mortgage Insurance
Loan Delivery Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
817
Whole Loan Committing and Pooling of Loans with LTV Ratios Above 105%
Loan-Level Price Adjustments
The LLPAs that are applicable to high LTV reﬁnance loans are detailed in the Loan-Level Price Adjustment (LLPA)
Matrix. Caps may apply based on the LTV ratio and amortization term, and excess LLPAs will be waived at
delivery.
Mortgage Insurance
The following table provides mortgage insurance requirements for high LTV reﬁnance loans.
If the loan being reﬁnanced... Then...
does not have mortgage insurance
mortgage insurance will not be required on the new
loan.
has existing mortgage insurance
the existing mortgage insurance coverage must be
continued on the new loan.
To accomplish this, the mortgage insurer will modify
the existing MI certiﬁcate and transfer it to the new
loan. Such transfer may or may not include assignment
of a new MI certiﬁcate number. Lenders should check
with the mortgage insurer for speciﬁc requirements.
Existing loans with ﬁnanced mortgage insurance are eligible for high LTV reﬁnance loans. There should be no
diﬀerence in how coverage is continued on the reﬁnance of such loans versus existing loans that do not have
ﬁnanced mortgage insurance. The existing coverage can be continued on the new loan regardless of whether
the ﬁnanced premium on the existing loan was paid as a single premium or a split premium.
Mortgage insurance coverage must extend for the life of the new loan, or until cancellation or termination of
coverage as required by law or Fannie Mae guidelines. For example, even if a 15-year loan that is 3 years old is
reﬁnanced into a 30-year loan, the mortgage insurance coverage should be extended for the full life of the new
loan.
A mortgage insurance company may charge a reasonable fee to transfer the certiﬁcate. Fannie Mae allows such
cost to be rolled into the UPB of the new loan as a closing cost as long as the loan will still comply with both
Fannie Mae and mortgage insurer guidelines. See B7-1-02, Mortgage Insurance Coverage Requirements for
additional information.
Loan Delivery Requirements
Published June 3, 2026
818
For high LTV reﬁnance loans, lenders must provide all applicable loan delivery data elements and special
feature codes.
The following special feature codes (SFC) may apply:
SFC 839 may optionally be delivered for high LTV reﬁnance loans underwritten using the standard
requirements.
SFC 840 is required for high LTV reﬁnance loans that are underwritten using the Alternative Qualiﬁcation
Path.
These codes are to be used in addition to any other special feature codes that may apply.
Income must be reported to Fannie Mae for all high LTV reﬁnance loans at the time of loan delivery even for
those transactions where there is no maximum DTI ratio. For high LTV reﬁnance loans with payment changes
less than or equal to 20%, the lender must report the stated income on the loan application (if any). If the
borrower does not state any income and the lender uses the veriﬁcation of reserves option as the income
source, the lender must deliver the equivalent of the new monthly payment (PITIA) as the “Monthly Income”
data element (Sort ID 291).
Note: Lenders must report gross monthly rent in the loan delivery data for all investment properties
and two- to four- unit principal residence properties, regardless of whether the borrower is using rental
income to qualify for the mortgage loan. See A3-4-02, Data Quality and Integrity for additional
information.
Whole Loan Committing and Pooling of Loans with LTV Ratios Above 105%
Separate committing is required for high LTV reﬁnance loans with LTV ratios above 105%. These loans may not
be delivered against standard whole loan commitments. Speciﬁc “High LTV Reﬁ” products are available in
Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application.
High LTV reﬁnance loans with LTV ratios above 105% cannot be included in TBA-eligible MBS, but must be
included in pools speciﬁcally created for loans with LTV ratios above 105%.
Furthermore, lenders may be able to deliver high LTV reﬁnance loans with LTV ratios above 105% into the
respective Fannie Majors pool speciﬁcally available for these loans. Due to the separate pool preﬁxes required
for loans with LTV ratios above 105%, these loans may not be delivered into standard TBA-eligible Fannie Majors
pools. However, MBS deliveries of loans reﬁnanced under this new option are eligible for securitization utilizing
existing Fannie Mae pool preﬁxes.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Subpart B6, Government Programs Eligibility and