SECTION: B5-7-03
TITLE: High LTV Refinance Alternative Qualification Path
EFFECTIVE: 06/04/2025
PAGES: 828-833
---
Published June 3, 2026
810
may still exercise the oﬀer.
For manually underwritten loans, an appraisal with an interior and exterior inspection is required.
Repairs to a property damaged as the result of a disaster (as deﬁned by this Selling Guide) are not required
prior to loan sale as long as the loan meets the applicable property insurance requirements. The lender is not
required to perform an additional inspection and/or new appraisal of the property after a disaster.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-07 September 03, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-03 April 07, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
B5-7-03, High LTV Reﬁnance Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path
(06/04/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information about using the Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path for the high LTV reﬁnance option,
including:
Eligibility Requirements
Documentation Requirements
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Eligibility Requirements
The following table provides criteria for using the Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path.
Published June 3, 2026
811
If any of the following apply to the new loan... Then the loan...
the P&I payment increases by more than 20% from
the current P&I payment
must comply with the Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path
requirements.
a borrower on the loan being reﬁnanced is being
excluded from the new loan other than due to death,
and the remaining borrower(s) cannot provide
evidence of making payments on their own for the
prior 12 months
the loan is a higher-priced mortgage loan or a
higher-priced covered transaction under Regulation
Z
In addition to all other requirements associated with the high LTV reﬁnance option loans, loans originated in
accordance with the Alternative Qualiﬁcation Path must also meet the requirements described in the following
table.
✓ Additional requirements for high LTV reﬁnance loans originated using the Alternative
Qualiﬁcation Path
 Minimum credit score of 620.
 Maximum DTI ratio of 45%.
 Veriﬁed assets needed to close, when applicable.
 The lender is required to manually underwrite all loans subject to the Alternative Qualiﬁcation
Path.
Documentation Requirements
In addition to the eligibility considerations described in this topic, the documentation requirements in the
following table apply.
Published June 3, 2026
812
Income Type and Eligible Income Sources Documentation Requirements
All Employment Income
Verbal veriﬁcation of employment (See B3-3.1-04,
Verbal Veriﬁcation of Employment, for additional
requirements.)
Note: Each borrower must complete and sign a
separate IRS Form 4506-C at or before closing.
Base Pay (salary or hourly)
Tip, Bonus, and Overtime Income
One paystub or a completed Request for Veriﬁcation
of Employment (Form 1005).
Applies to primary employment, secondary
employment (second job and multiple jobs), and
seasonal income.
Commission Income One paystub or Form 1005 or one year personal tax
return.
Military Income A military Leave and Earnings Statement or a
veriﬁcation of employment.
Self-Employment One year personal tax return.
Applies to primary and secondary self-employment.
Alimony, Child Support, or Separate
Maintenance
Copy of divorce decree, separation agreement, court
order or equivalent documentation, and one month
documentation of receipt.
Employment-Related Assets as Qualifying
Income
Lender must obtain standard documentation for this
type of income as described in B3-3.4-06,
Employment Related Assets as Qualifying Income.
Rental Income
Lease or one year personal tax return (Form 1007 is
not required).
Applies to rental income from subject property or
from other properties owned by the borrower.
Published June 3, 2026
813
Income Type and Eligible Income Sources Documentation Requirements
Retirement and Pension
One of the following:
• award letter,
• one year personal tax return,
• W-2 or 1099 form, or
• one month bank statement reﬂecting direct
deposit.
Social Security
One of the following:
• award letter,
• one year personal tax return,
• Form SSA-1099, or
• one month bank statement reﬂecting direct
deposit.
Temporary Leave Income
Lender must receive:
• the borrower’s written conﬁrmation of their intent
to return to work, and
• no evidence or information from the borrower’s
employer indicating that the borrower does not have
the right to return to work after the leave period.
Regardless of the date of return, the amount of the
“regular employment income” the borrower received
prior to the temporary leave must be used to qualify.
Published June 3, 2026
814
Income Type and Eligible Income Sources Documentation Requirements
All Other Income Types
• Automobile Allowance
• Boarder Income
• Capital Gains Income
• Disability Income - Long-Term
• Employment Oﬀers or Contracts
• Foreign Income
• Foster-Care Income
• Housing or Parsonage Allowance
• Interest and Dividends Income
• Mortgage Credit Certiﬁcates
• Mortgage Diﬀerential Payments Income
• Non-Occupant Borrower Income
• Notes Receivable Income
• Public Assistance Income
• Royalty Payment Income
• Schedule K-1 Income
• Trust Income
• VA Beneﬁts Income
Lender must determine appropriate documentation.
Examples include (but are not limited to):
• an award letter or equivalent documentation or
agreement,
• one paystub or equivalent documentation,
• one year personal tax return,
• IRS 1099 Form, or
• one month bank statement reﬂecting direct
deposit.
Asset Type
• Checking Accounts
• Savings Accounts
• Certiﬁcates of Deposit
• Money Mark Accounts
• Stocks, Bonds, Mutual Funds
• Retirement Accounts
• Trust Accounts
• Secured Borrowed Funds
• Grants (Hardest Hit Fund)
• Gifts
One recent statement (monthly, quarterly, or annual)
showing asset balance.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
815
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
B5-7-04, High LTV Reﬁnance Representations and Warranties
(03/01/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about the representations and warranties for the high LTV reﬁnance option,
including:
Lender Representations and Warranties
Applicability of the Representation and Warranty Framework
Lender Representations and Warranties
For high LTV reﬁnance loans, lenders are responsible for the standard representations and warranties described
in the Selling Guide, with a number of exceptions as noted below.
For all High LTV Reﬁnances
If the lender obtains an appraisal for the subject property, the lender is not responsible for the standard
representations and warranties related to the marketability and condition of the property as reﬂected in
the property valuation. The lender remains responsible for the appraisal as it pertains to the value.
Lenders may deliver loans on properties with a condition rating of C6 and/or a quality rating of Q6
completed on an “as-is” basis. There is no requirement for the appraisal to be completed “subject
to” repairs being made.
For properties in a project, the lender is not responsible for the standard representations and warranties
related to project eligibility. However, the lender must represent and warrant the property is not a condo
or co-op hotel or motel, houseboat project, or a timeshare or segmented ownership project.
Loans Underwritten in DU
The lender is not responsible for any of the representations and warranties associated with the loan being
reﬁnanced.