SECTION: B7-1-05
TITLE: Government Mortgage Loan Guaranty or Insurance
EFFECTIVE: 02/23/2016
PAGES: 857-859
---
Published June 3, 2026
839
The mortgage insurance coverage amount is determined based on the LTV ratio that is calculated after
the inclusion of all the closing costs, prepaid items, and points. (The concept of “gross LTV ratio” and
“base LTV ratio” are not applicable to prepaid mortgage insurance transactions because the ﬁnanced
mortgage insurance amount is not identiﬁed at loan delivery.)
The loan is not to be delivered as a ﬁnanced mortgage insurance transaction – lenders should not deliver
SFC 281 or the other ﬁnanced mortgage insurance data elements.
The Financed MI Premium Endorsement to the mortgage insurance policy should not be obtained.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements and Release Notes Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
 
B7-1-05, Government Mortgage Loan Guaranty or Insurance
(02/23/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on government mortgage loan guaranty or insurance, including:
Evidence of Government Guaranty or Insurance
Inability to Obtain Guaranty or Insurance Prior to Delivery
Lapse of Governmental Authority
Special Feature Code for Lapse of Government Authority
Evidence of Government Guaranty or Insurance
Lenders must obtain the required government guaranty or government insurance. The following table lists the
acceptable forms of evidence of government guaranty or insurance:
Mortgage Type Evidence
FHA FHA Mortgage Insurance Certiﬁcate (HUD Form
59100)
Published June 3, 2026
840
Mortgage Type Evidence
VA VA Loan Guaranty Certiﬁcate (VA Form 26-1899)
RD RD Loan Note Guarantee (Form RD 1980-17)
HUD Section 184 Indian Loan Guarantee Certiﬁcate (HUD Form 53039)
Inability to Obtain Guaranty or Insurance Prior to Delivery
Evidence of the guaranty or insurance should be obtained before loan delivery, if possible. If this is not possible,
the lender represents and warrants, by delivery of the loan, all of the following:
A complete and satisfactory mortgage guaranty or insurance application was submitted to the
government agency within the required time frame, either based on an agency’s prior approval of the
loan application and issuance of a commitment to insure or guarantee, or subject to an agency’s
delegated or automatic loan approval processing, as applicable.
The mortgage insurance premiums, funding fee, or guarantee fees were paid to the government agency
within the government agency’s required time frame.
The government agency has the legal authority to issue the guaranty or insurance and will have such
authority for long enough to issue the guaranty or insurance within a time period that is consistent with
its past practice.
After delivery of a mortgage loan, if a lender fails to obtain the guaranty or insurance in a timely manner, as
determined by Fannie Mae, the lender must repurchase the mortgage and make Fannie Mae whole for any
losses incurred by Fannie Mae. In addition, Fannie Mae may suspend or terminate the lender’s authority to
deliver the following:
mortgages for which it has not already received the government mortgage guaranty or insurance,
any government mortgage or any particular category of government mortgage, or
any mortgage.
The lender must notify its Fannie Mae customer account team if the government agency declines to issue the
mortgage guaranty or insurance for any reason for any loan delivered to Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae may require the lender to provide periodic reports on the guaranty or insurance status for all
government mortgages sold to Fannie Mae. Such reports must be provided within the requested time frame.
Lapse of Governmental Authority
Occasionally, a government agency’s guaranty or insurance authority may lapse. This occurrence is in contrast
to ordinary circumstances in which there may be a delay in obtaining the government guaranty or insurance,
but there is no reason to expect the government agency not to provide the guaranty or insurance within a time
Published June 3, 2026
841
period that is consistent with its past practice.
Mortgages that are not yet guaranteed or insured due to a lapse of governmental authority must be delivered
with the government loan identiﬁer in accordance with Fannie Mae’s usual procedures. However, for credit
enhancement purposes, Fannie Mae treats such mortgages as conventional mortgages, rather than as
government mortgages.
Fannie Mae will accept delivery of such mortgages only if:
The government agency is continuing to accept applications and permit lenders to create direct
endorsements or conditional commitments during the period of the lapse.
The delivery is for portfolio purchase rather than issuance of MBS.
The lender agrees to the repurchase requirements described below.
The lender must repurchase the mortgage and make Fannie Mae whole for any losses incurred by Fannie Mae in
the following situations:
for whole loans in Fannie Mae's portfolio, if the mortgage becomes delinquent before the insurance or
guaranty is issued;
the lender fails to notify Fannie Mae of its receipt of the guaranty or insurance within 60 days of when the
government agency resumes issuance of the guaranty or insurance;
the lender delivers a mortgage that the government agency cannot insure or guarantee.
Special Feature Code for Lapse of Government Authority
When a lender delivers mortgages during a lapse in government authority, it must include the government loan
identiﬁer in accordance with Fannie Mae’s usual procedures and report SFC 001 at delivery, to indicate the
existence of the lender’s repurchase obligation in lieu of the government guaranty or insurance.
Upon receipt of the guaranty or insurance, the lender must contact its Fannie Mae customer account team to
request removal of SFC 001. Once it is removed, Fannie Mae’s record will reﬂect that the mortgage is
government guaranteed or insured.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter B7-2, Title Insurance
Introduction
This chapter contains information on title insurance, including required title insurance coverage, title insurer
eligibility standards, special title insurance coverage considerations, acceptable and unacceptable title
exceptions, and attorney title opinion letter requirements.