SECTION: B7-2-03
TITLE: General Title Insurance Coverage
EFFECTIVE: 07/06/2022
PAGES: 861-863
---
Published June 3, 2026
843
duly authorized and licensed, as required, to issue title insurance in the state where the property is
located; and
further evaluated in accordance with the lender’s procedures for title insurer approval, which may include
factors such as
an acceptable rating from a rating agency,
ﬁnancial strength of the title insurer,
adequate reserves,
record related to satisfactory title claim resolution, or
strength of a reinsurance arrangement subject to the guidelines below.
Note: Iowa Title Guaranty is an acceptable title guarantor for properties located in the state of Iowa.
Insurer Covered by Reinsurance
If the lender accepts an insurer based on the strength of a reinsurer, both the primary insurer and the reinsuring
company must be licensed, as required, to issue title insurance within the state where the property is located
and are in good standing with that state’s insurance regulator.
Both insurance carriers must execute an Assumption of Liability Endorsement (Form 858) or an equivalent
endorsement that provides for 100% reinsurance of the primary insurer’s policy and a 90-day written notice of
termination of the reinsurance agreement. The alternative endorsement must be attached to the title insurance
policy for each individual mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 
B7-2-03, General Title Insurance Coverage (07/06/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on general title insurance coverage.
Terms of Coverage
Eﬀective Date of Coverage
Amount of Coverage
Published June 3, 2026
844
Other Requirements
Terms of Coverage
The title insurance policy must ensure that the title is generally acceptable and that the mortgage constitutes a
lien of the required priority on a fee simple or leasehold estate in the property.
The title policy also must list all other liens and state that they are subordinate to Fannie Mae’s mortgage lien.
Loan Origination Date Title Policy Requirements
On or after January 1, 2024
The title policy must be written on one of the following forms:
• the 2021 American Land Title Association (ALTA) Loan Policy;
• an ALTA short form if it provides coverage equivalent to the
2021 ALTA Loan Policy and does not materially impair protection
to Fannie Mae;
• in states in which standard ALTA forms of coverage are, by law
or regulation, not used, the state-promulgated standard or short
form which provides same coverage as the equivalent ALTA form,
provided that those forms do not materially impair protection to
Fannie Mae.
Prior to January 1, 2024
The title policy must be written on one of the following forms:
• the 2006 American Land Title Association (ALTA) Loan Policy or
2021 ALTA Loan Policy;
• an ALTA short form if it provides coverage equivalent to either
the 2006 ALTA Loan Policy or 2021 ALTA Loan Policy and does not
materially impair protection to Fannie Mae;
• in states in which standard ALTA forms of coverage are, by law
or regulation, not used, the state-promulgated standard or short
form which provides same coverage as the equivalent ALTA form,
provided that those forms do not materially impair protection to
Fannie Mae.
Eﬀective Date of Coverage
The eﬀective date of the title insurance coverage written on forms that do not provide the gap coverage
included in the 2006 and 2021 ALTA policies may be no earlier than the later of the date of the ﬁnal
disbursement of loan proceeds or the date the mortgage was recorded.
Because the 2006 and 2021 ALTA forms provide protection for the time between loan closing and recordation of
the mortgage, policies written on those forms may be eﬀective as of loan closing.
Published June 3, 2026
845
Amount of Coverage
The amount of title insurance coverage must at least equal the original principal amount of the loan.
Other Requirements
If a mortgage is registered with MERS and is originated naming MERS as original mortgagee of record, solely as
nominee for the lender named in the security instrument and the note, and the lender's successors and assigns,
then the "insured mortgage" covered by the title insurance policy must be identiﬁed in the title insurance policy
as the security instrument given to MERS, solely as nominee for the lender and lender's successors and assigns.
However, under no circumstances may MERS be named as the insured of a title policy.
The title insurance coverage must include an environmental protection lien endorsement (ALTA 8.1
Environmental Protection Lien Endorsement or equivalent state form that provides the required coverage).
References are to the ALTA form of endorsement, but state forms may be used as described in Terms of
Coverage. As an alternative to endorsements, the requisite protections may be incorporated into the policy. For
loans originated prior to January 1, 2008, endorsement forms that meet Fannie Mae’s requirements at the time
of origination are acceptable.
Title policies may not include the creditors’ rights exclusion language that ALTA adopted in 1990.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-06 July 06, 2022
 
B7-2-04, Special Title Insurance Coverage Considerations
(05/03/2023)
Introduction
This topic provides speciﬁc requirements for title insurance coverage related to certain types of loan products or
types of subject properties, including:
Condo and PUD Unit Mortgages
Co-op Share Loans
Mortgages Subject to Leasehold Estates