SECTION: B7-3-04
TITLE: Individual Property Insurance Requirements for a Unit in a Project Development
EFFECTIVE: 12/14/2022
PAGES: 885-886
---
Published June 3, 2026
867
master property insurance requirements for project developments must be met.
The lender or servicer must document how they determined the applicable policy provides acceptable coverage
as detailed above. A copy of the policy, along with the lender's or servicer's documentation must be maintained
in the loan ﬁle.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
B7-3-04, Individual Property Insurance Requirements for a Unit in a
Project Development (12/14/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on property insurance requirements for units in project developments, including:
Overview
Determining if an Individual Property Insurance Policy on a Unit in a Project Development is Required
Coverage Requirements
Determining the Required Coverage Amount
Deductible Requirements
Overview
See Overview in  B7-3-03, Master Property Insurance Requirements for Project Developments  for additional
information.
Determining if an Individual Property Insurance Policy on a Unit in a Project
Development is Required
See Determining if a Master Property Insurance Policy is Required in  B7-3-03, Master Property Insurance
Requirements for Project Developments for determining when a master property insurance policy and/or an
individual property insurance policy is required.
Published June 3, 2026
868
Coverage Requirements
See Coverage Requirements in  B7-3-02, Property Insurance Requirements for One-to Four-Unit Properties, for
the coverage requirements when an individual property insurance policy is required for a unit in a project
development.
See  B7-3-08, Mortgagee Clause, Named Insured, and Notice of Cancellation Requirements for requirements
applicable to a loan secured by a unit in a project development.
Determining the Required Coverage Amount
To the extent the master property insurance policy does not cover the interior or improvements of a unit in a
project development, the borrower must maintain an individual property insurance policy.
The lender or servicer must verify the coverage amount is suﬃcient to restore the unit to its condition prior to a
loss event.
Coverage suﬃciency should be based on the best information known or available to the lender or servicer,
which may include information obtained from the borrower, in collaboration with the insurer, the HOA or co-op
corporation legal documents, or other professional with appropriate resources to make such a determination.
Fannie Mae recommends that lenders and servicers encourage borrowers to closely collaborate with an
insurance professional to determine their individual insurance needs.
Deductible Requirements
See Deductible Requirements in  B7-3-02, Property Insurance Requirements for One-to Four-Unit Properties for
deductible requirements when an individual property insurance policy is required for a unit in a project
development.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
 