SECTION: B7-3-05
TITLE: Additional Insurance Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 12/14/2022
PAGES: 886-889
---
Published June 3, 2026
868
Coverage Requirements
See Coverage Requirements in  B7-3-02, Property Insurance Requirements for One-to Four-Unit Properties, for
the coverage requirements when an individual property insurance policy is required for a unit in a project
development.
See  B7-3-08, Mortgagee Clause, Named Insured, and Notice of Cancellation Requirements for requirements
applicable to a loan secured by a unit in a project development.
Determining the Required Coverage Amount
To the extent the master property insurance policy does not cover the interior or improvements of a unit in a
project development, the borrower must maintain an individual property insurance policy.
The lender or servicer must verify the coverage amount is suﬃcient to restore the unit to its condition prior to a
loss event.
Coverage suﬃciency should be based on the best information known or available to the lender or servicer,
which may include information obtained from the borrower, in collaboration with the insurer, the HOA or co-op
corporation legal documents, or other professional with appropriate resources to make such a determination.
Fannie Mae recommends that lenders and servicers encourage borrowers to closely collaborate with an
insurance professional to determine their individual insurance needs.
Deductible Requirements
See Deductible Requirements in  B7-3-02, Property Insurance Requirements for One-to Four-Unit Properties for
deductible requirements when an individual property insurance policy is required for a unit in a project
development.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
 
Published June 3, 2026
869
B7-3-05, Additional Insurance Requirements (12/14/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on additional insurance requirements, including:
Additional Property Insurance Coverage
Insurance Requirements for Renovation and Energy-Related Improvement Loans
Optional Credit Life or Mortgage Loan Insurance
Additional Property Insurance Coverage
If a lender or servicer becomes aware of a subject property's exposure to perils that are not covered as required
in Coverage Requirements in  B7-3-02, Property Insurance Requirements for One-to Four-Unit Properties, or
Coverage Requirements in  B7-3-03, Master Property Insurance Requirements for Project Developments, such as
toxic waste; it should contact Fannie Mae to determine whether additional coverage is necessary. Servicers
should contact their Fannie Mae Servicing Representative (see Servicing Guide, F-4-02, List of Contacts) and
lenders should contact their Fannie Mae Account Team (see  E-1-02, List of Contacts).
Insurance Requirements for Renovation and Energy-Related Improvement Loans
When the loan provides funds to cover the costs of repairs, remodeling, renovations, or energy-related
improvements, there must not be any coverage exclusions or limitations related to the renovation work during
the time that work is being performed on the property.
Once repairs, renovation, or construction is complete, the lender or servicer must review the property insurance
policy (and ﬂood insurance policy when required) to ensure the appropriate coverage is in place based on the
completed replacement cost value of the subject property.
Optional Credit Life or Mortgage Loan Insurance
Fannie Mae allows insurance policies that include optional coverage such as those outlined below. However,
Fannie Mae does not pay costs arising from disputes with insurers in settling claims that relate only to this
optional coverage.
Acceptable Types of Optional Credit Life or Mortgage Loan Insurance
Permissible coverage includes:
single-premium credit insurance policies and debt cancellation agreements that are free in all respects to
the borrower, 
single-premium mortgage insurance policies with a credit insurance feature where such credit insurance
feature is free in all respects to the borrower, and
credit insurance policies that require borrowers to pay a separately identiﬁed premium on a monthly or
Published June 3, 2026
870
annual basis or debt cancellation agreements that require borrowers to pay a separately identiﬁed fee on
a monthly basis.
These credit insurance policies or debt cancellation agreements must be disclosed to the borrower in clear and
simple terms in advance of purchase of the applicable policy or agreement.
Notwithstanding the lender's or servicer's compliance with the above requirements, Fannie Mae purchases loans
with debt cancellation agreements only with Fannie Mae's express written approval of the overall debt
cancellation feature. This includes the debt cancellation agreement, and execution by the lender or servicer and
Fannie Mae of a separately negotiated agreement.
The lender or servicer may act as a broker or agent in the sale of this type of credit insurance to the borrower.
The lender or servicer must reimburse Fannie Mae for attorney's fees or any costs that it incurs if Fannie Mae
brings an action on a defaulted loan and the borrower defends against Fannie Mae's foreclosure or acts to enjoin
Fannie Mae from liquidating the loan and one of the defenses or actions for injunction is based on:
an obligation of the lender or servicer (including as the broker or agent that obtained the credit insurance
for the borrower and/or as a party that has agreed to collect premiums and remit them to the credit
insurer on the borrower's behalf),
an obligation of the credit insurer, or
the obligation of the mortgage insurer to maintain credit insurance and apply beneﬁts thereof to the
borrower's loan.
Unacceptable Types of Optional Credit Life or Mortgage Loan Insurance
Although certain property insurance policies that include optional coverage are allowed, Fannie Mae does not
purchase loans in the following situations:
The premium/fee for single-premium credit life insurance policies or debt cancellation agreements is paid
directly by the borrower or paid indirectly by ﬁnancing the premium/fee into the loan amount.
The premium/fee for single-premium mortgage insurance policies with a credit insurance feature is paid
directly by the borrower or paid indirectly by rolling the credit insurance single premium into the cost of
the mortgage insurance (whether or not it is identiﬁed as including a credit insurance premium).
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
 
Published June 3, 2026
871
B7-3-06, Flood Insurance Requirements for All Property Types
(02/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Fannie Mae’s ﬂood insurance requirements, including:
Determining if a Property Requires Flood Insurance
Determining if Flood Insurance is Required on Speciﬁc Structures
Community Eligibility
Acceptable Flood Insurance Policies
Requirements for One- to Four-Unit Properties
Requirements for Project Developments
Deductible Requirements
Delivery Requirements
Requirements During a National Flood Insurance Program Lapse
Determining if a Property Requires Flood Insurance
The lender and servicer must ensure that the subject property is adequately protected by ﬂood insurance when
required. Flood insurance coverage is required when a loan is secured by a property located in
a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA), or
a Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS) or Otherwise Protected Area (OPA). 
The lender and servicer must determine whether the property is located in an SFHA, a CBRS, or an OPA by using
the FEMA Standard Flood Hazard Determination form. All ﬂood zones beginning with the letter "A" or "V" are
considered SFHAs.
Note: If the subject property is located within a CBRS or an OPA, ﬂood insurance is required regardless
of whether the property is located in an SFHA.
Flood insurance is not required on a principal or residential detached structure securing the loan if the lender or
servicer obtains a letter from FEMA stating that its maps have been amended and the structure is no longer in
an SFHA.
Determining if Flood Insurance is Required on Speciﬁc Structures
The following table describes how to evaluate a property to determine if ﬂood insurance is required. For these
requirements, the "principal structure" is the primary residential structure on the subject property.