SECTION: B7-4-02
TITLE: Fidelity/Crime Insurance Requirements for Project Developments
EFFECTIVE: 12/14/2022
PAGES: 903-905
---
Published June 3, 2026
885
the premiums paid as a common expense by the HOA or co-op corporation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
 
B7-4-02, Fidelity/Crime Insurance Requirements for Project
Developments (12/14/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on ﬁdelity/crime insurance requirements, including:
Determining if Fidelity/Crime Insurance is Required
Coverage Requirements
Determining the Required Coverage Amount
Named Insured
Determining if Fidelity/Crime Insurance is Required
Fidelity/crime insurance is required for all condo and co-op projects, with the following exceptions:
projects that qualify for a waiver of project review as described in  B4-2.1-02, Waiver of Project Review, 
condo projects reviewed under the Limited Review method as described in  B4-2.2-01, Limited Review
Process,
condo or co-op projects consisting of 20 units or less, or
condo or co-op projects that would need ﬁdelity/crime insurance coverage of $5,000 or less (based on the
calculations described in Determining the Required Coverage Amount).
Coverage Requirements
When required, the HOA or co-op corporation must have ﬁdelity/crime insurance coverage for the dishonest or
fraudulent acts of anyone who either handles or is responsible for funds held or administered for the HOA or co-
op corporation. Fidelity/crime insurance is required whether or not that individual receives compensation for
services rendered. Accordingly, the HOA or co-op corporation ﬁdelity/crime insurance policy must include
coverage for the acts of any management agent.
Published June 3, 2026
886
A management agent that handles funds for the HOA or co-op corporation should additionally be covered by its
own ﬁdelity/crime insurance policy, however, a ﬁdelity/crime insurance policy maintained by the management
agent (with the management agent as the named insured) is not an acceptable alternative for a ﬁdelity/crime
insurance policy in the HOA or co-op corporation's name that provides coverage for the acts of all parties with
access to their funds, including the management agent.
Determining the Required Coverage Amount
When ﬁdelity/crime insurance is required, the lender or servicer must review the project legal documents or
other source acceptable to the lender or servicer to verify whether the HOA or co-op corporation and any
associated management company adhere to one or more of the ﬁnancial controls listed below:
Separate bank accounts are maintained for the working account and the reserve account, each with
appropriate access controls, and the bank in which funds are deposited sends copies of the monthly bank
statements directly to the HOA or co-op corporation.
The management company maintains separate records and bank accounts for each HOA or co-op
corporation that uses its services, and the management company does not have the authority to draw
checks on, or transfer funds from, the reserve account of the HOA or co-op corporation.
Two members of the Board of Directors must sign any checks written on the reserve account.
The following table describes how to determine the minimum required amount of ﬁdelity/crime insurance.
If the HOA or co-op
corporation
Then the ﬁdelity/crime insurance coverage amount must
equal at least...
adheres to one or more of
the ﬁnancial controls above
the sum of three months of assessments on all units in the
project.
does not adhere to one or
more of the ﬁnancial controls
above
the maximum funds that are in the custody of the HOA or co-op
corporation, or its management agent, at any time.
Note: In states that have statutory ﬁdelity/crime insurance requirements, Fannie Mae accepts those
requirements in place of its own.
Named Insured
The ﬁdelity/crime insurance policy must designate the HOA or co-op corporation as the named insured with
premiums paid as a common expense by the HOA or co-op corporation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
887
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
 
Subpart B8, Closing: Legal Documents
Introduction
This subpart describes legal document requirements in connection with mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae.
Chapter B8-1, General Information on Legal Documents
Introduction
This chapter provides general information on Fannie Mae’s requirements for legal documents.
B8-1-01, Publication of Legal Documents (06/28/2011)
Introduction
This topic contains information on settlement evidence, including:
Publication of Legal Documents
Legal Documents for Government Mortgages
Publication of Legal Documents
Fannie Mae publishes Legal Documents  on its website. These legal documents include security instruments,
notes, riders and addenda, and special-purpose documents that should be used in connection with regularly
amortizing, conventional, residential mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae. Many of these forms are published
jointly by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and are referred to as Uniform Instruments.
Each legal document published on Fannie Mae's website is accompanied by a Summary or Instructions