SECTION: B8-1-01
TITLE: Publication of Legal Documents
EFFECTIVE: 06/28/2011
PAGES: 905-906
---
Published June 3, 2026
887
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-10 December 14, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-11 December 15, 2021
 
Subpart B8, Closing: Legal Documents
Introduction
This subpart describes legal document requirements in connection with mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae.
Chapter B8-1, General Information on Legal Documents
Introduction
This chapter provides general information on Fannie Mae’s requirements for legal documents.
B8-1-01, Publication of Legal Documents (06/28/2011)
Introduction
This topic contains information on settlement evidence, including:
Publication of Legal Documents
Legal Documents for Government Mortgages
Publication of Legal Documents
Fannie Mae publishes Legal Documents  on its website. These legal documents include security instruments,
notes, riders and addenda, and special-purpose documents that should be used in connection with regularly
amortizing, conventional, residential mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae. Many of these forms are published
jointly by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and are referred to as Uniform Instruments.
Each legal document published on Fannie Mae's website is accompanied by a Summary or Instructions
Published June 3, 2026
888
document, which provides:
the latest revision date for the document,
the document’s purpose and type of mortgage transactions for which it is used,
instructions on how to print the electronic version of the document,
speciﬁc changes that must be made to the document,
additional changes that may be made to the document, and
other pertinent information about special circumstances that may aﬀect the user or completion of the
document.
Legal Documents for Government Mortgages
A lender should use legal documents for regularly amortizing FHA-insured mortgages, VA-guaranteed
mortgages, RD-guaranteed mortgages, and HUD-guaranteed mortgages that are acceptable to the government
agency and are appropriate for the state in which the security property is located.
Although Fannie Mae does not publish documents for government mortgages, in some cases Fannie Mae allows
(or requires) its legal documents to be used. If a lender chooses to use Fannie Mae’s legal documents for
conventional mortgages, and if those documents must be modiﬁed or amended to comply with applicable
government agency requirements, the following requirements must be met:
The documents must be enforceable under their terms.
The documents must comply with all applicable state and local requirements for a recordable and
enforceable document.
The lender must make nonstandard document warranties that are similar to those Fannie Mae requires
for other mortgages closed on documents other than Fannie Mae’s standard documents. See A2-2-03,
Document Warranties.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter B8-2, Security Instruments
Introduction
This chapter provides information on security instruments.