SECTION: B8-2-03
TITLE: Signature Requirements for Security Instruments
EFFECTIVE: 10/22/2013
PAGES: 910-911
---
Published June 3, 2026
892
used, which must be attached to the security instrument and included in the loan ﬁle.
The security instrument must state that the manufactured home is an improvement to the land and an
immovable ﬁxture, or must include similar language as may be required by applicable law to assure, to
the greatest extent possible, that the manufactured home is treated as real property under applicable
state law. If applicable law provides speciﬁc obligatory wording, such wording must be used.
The borrower(s) and any lender with a personal property security interest in the manufactured home
must sign an Aﬃdavit of Aﬃxture that acknowledges their intent for the manufactured home to be
permanently part of the real property that secures the mortgage free of any personal property security
interest. It must also contain any speciﬁc language that may be required by applicable law.
The Aﬃdavit must be signed by both the lender and the borrower(s), preferably recorded, and must be retained
in the loan ﬁle.
Failure to include the Aﬃdavit of Aﬃxture in the loan ﬁle may result in the loan being ineligible for delivery to
Fannie Mae.
If state law requires a Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) ﬁling in order to perfect a security interest in a
manufactured home, the lender must make such ﬁling in any and all appropriate locations.
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
Lenders using UAD 3.6 must follow the requirements in the UAD 3.6 Policy Supplement .
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-10 December 10, 2025
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
 
B8-2-03, Signature Requirements for Security Instruments
(10/22/2013)
Introduction
This topic contains information on:
Borrowers’ Signatures on Security Instruments
Published June 3, 2026
893
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
Borrowers’ Signatures on Security Instruments
The following person(s) must sign the security instrument:
Each person who has an ownership interest in the security property, even if the person’s income is not
used in qualifying for the loan.
The spouse or domestic partner of any person who has an interest in the property, if their signature is
necessary under applicable state law to waive any property right they have by virtue of being the owner’s
spouse or domestic partner.
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
The following persons may sign security instruments on a borrower’s behalf:
An attorney-in-fact may sign the security instrument, as long as the lender obtains a copy of the
applicable power of attorney. In jurisdictions where a power of attorney used for a signature on a security
instrument must be recorded with the security instrument, the lender must ensure that recordation has
been eﬀected. See B8-5-05, Requirements for Use of a Power of Attorney, for further requirements
governing the use of a power of attorney.
A court-appointed guardian may sign the security instrument if the borrower is not legally competent,
provided that they have unlimited power over the ward’s aﬀairs, including the power to hold, convey, and
give a lien against real property owned by the ward, to make payments from the ward’s assets, and to
permit inquiries concerning the ward’s credit. The lender should obtain a copy of the documents making
the appointment. If the guardian in some other capacity is a party to the loan or sale transaction—for
example, the seller of the property—the lender should ascertain that there are no material conﬂicts of
interest.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter B8-3, Notes
Introduction
This chapter describes requirements for conventional ﬁrst and second mortgages notes, special note provisions,
and signature and endorsement requirements.