SECTION: B8-2-01
TITLE: Security Instruments for Conventional Mortgages
EFFECTIVE: 02/06/2019
PAGES: 906-908
---
Published June 3, 2026
888
document, which provides:
the latest revision date for the document,
the document’s purpose and type of mortgage transactions for which it is used,
instructions on how to print the electronic version of the document,
speciﬁc changes that must be made to the document,
additional changes that may be made to the document, and
other pertinent information about special circumstances that may aﬀect the user or completion of the
document.
Legal Documents for Government Mortgages
A lender should use legal documents for regularly amortizing FHA-insured mortgages, VA-guaranteed
mortgages, RD-guaranteed mortgages, and HUD-guaranteed mortgages that are acceptable to the government
agency and are appropriate for the state in which the security property is located.
Although Fannie Mae does not publish documents for government mortgages, in some cases Fannie Mae allows
(or requires) its legal documents to be used. If a lender chooses to use Fannie Mae’s legal documents for
conventional mortgages, and if those documents must be modiﬁed or amended to comply with applicable
government agency requirements, the following requirements must be met:
The documents must be enforceable under their terms.
The documents must comply with all applicable state and local requirements for a recordable and
enforceable document.
The lender must make nonstandard document warranties that are similar to those Fannie Mae requires
for other mortgages closed on documents other than Fannie Mae’s standard documents. See A2-2-03,
Document Warranties.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter B8-2, Security Instruments
Introduction
This chapter provides information on security instruments.
Published June 3, 2026
889
B8-2-01, Security Instruments for Conventional Mortgages
(02/06/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on conventional ﬁrst mortgage security instruments, including:
Use of Security Instruments
Standard First-Lien Mortgage Security Instruments
Master Form and Short Form Documents
Use of Security Instruments
Lenders must use security instruments for conventional mortgages that are correct for the applicable
jurisdiction, mortgage type, lien type, property type, and transaction type. Security instruments for regularly
amortizing mortgages include the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac Uniform Mortgages, Deeds of Trust, and Security
Deeds.
In some cases, the uniform security instruments may have to be adapted to meet the lender’s needs or local
jurisdictional requirements. If, however, a security instrument is modiﬁed in any way, Fannie Mae will consider it
to be a nonstandard document, which means the lender’s delivery of the loan is subject to Fannie Mae’s
requirements for nonstandard documents. For more information on the warranties a lender makes when it sells
Fannie Mae mortgages closed on nonstandard documents, see A2-2-03, Document Warranties.
Standard First-Lien Mortgage Security Instruments
The current versions of the Fannie Mae standard ﬁrst mortgage security instruments are posted on Fannie
Maes's Legal Documents  website. The website also contains instructions for use of these documents, including
any required changes and some changes that may be made at lender’s option, called “authorized changes.”
Lenders must make sure that any changes they make, including changes authorized by Fannie Mae, comply
with all applicable laws.
The standard uniform security instruments are used for almost all types of regularly amortizing mortgages. In
some instances, the standard security instruments must be modiﬁed by a rider. For example, a rider is needed
for an adjustable-rate mortgage as well as for a security property that is a one-unit dwelling that is used as a
second home or an investment property, or that is a two- to four-unit property or a unit in a PUD or condo
project. For more information about these riders, see B8-4-01, Riders and Addenda.
Master Form and Short Form Documents
Lenders may elect to deliver ﬁrst-lien mortgage loans to Fannie Mae using a master form mortgage or deed of
trust (“Master Form”) and short form mortgage or deed of trust (“Short Form”) in states with statutes that allow
for the use of these forms. The uniform Master Form and Short Form documents may be used in lieu of the
current version of the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac uniform ﬁrst mortgage security instruments.
Published June 3, 2026
890
Under applicable state law, lenders may record a Master Form in a given recording jurisdiction, and then may
subsequently record a Short Form for any mortgage loan originated in that jurisdiction.
The Master Form consists of a title page, which contains the state-speciﬁc requirements for a master security
instrument, and the current long form uniform security instrument for that state. The Short Form contains the
loan-speciﬁc information (for example, borrower name, lender name, loan amount, description of property, etc.)
and identiﬁes the provisions of the Master Form that are being incorporated into the Short Form. Any applicable
riders to the security instrument must be attached to the Short Form. The borrower must execute the Short
Form document and any applicable riders. The lender must provide the borrower with a copy of the recorded
Master Form as well as the signed Short Form and any applicable riders.
The documents are available for 27 states and are posted on Fannie Mae's  Legal Documents website.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
B8-2-02, Special-Purpose Security Instruments (12/10/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on special-purpose security instruments, including:
General Information
Consolidated New York Mortgages
Puerto Rico Direct Mortgage Instruments
Security Instruments for Manufactured Home Mortgages
Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) 3.6 Policy
General Information
Fannie Mae sometimes allows special-purpose alternative documents to be used in lieu of (or in addition to) the
typical security instruments. These documents can be found on Fannie Mae's  Legal Documents
 website. Authorized changes that must or may be made to those documents are set out in the instructions that
accompany each document. These instruments must be supported by the appropriate mortgage riders, rider
addenda, mortgage assignments, and, if applicable, other product-speciﬁc documentation (see B8-4, Riders and
Addenda, and B8-6, Mortgage Assignments).