SECTION: B8-3-03
TITLE: Signature Requirements for Notes
EFFECTIVE: 02/07/2024
PAGES: 914-915
---
Published June 3, 2026
896
loan, requiring that you submit to arbitration to resolve any dispute arising out of or relating in any way
to your mortgage, is immediately null and void.
The lender and servicer shall maintain a copy of such notice in the mortgage ﬁle.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-03 June 03, 2020
 
B8-3-03, Signature Requirements for Notes (02/07/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on borrowers’ signatures on notes, including:
Borrowers’ Signatures on Notes
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
Borrowers’ Signatures on Notes
An individual whose credit (credit history, income, assets, liabilities, etc.) is used in qualifying for the loan must
sign the note.
An individual whose credit was not used in qualifying for the loan, but who does have an ownership
interest in the property must be named in and sign the security instrument, but is not required to sign the
note.
An individual who is not a loan applicant but whose credit is used in qualifying for the loan pursuant to a
requirement of applicable law, is not required to sign the note, but if they have an ownership interest in
the property must be named in and sign the security instrument.
An individual who is a co-signer or guarantor and who does not have an ownership interest in the
property must sign the note, but is not named in (or required to sign) the security instrument.
When an inter vivos revocable trust is permitted by B2-2-05, Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts as a mortgagor,
and no individual borrower has an ownership interest in the property (either on title or by operation of
law), the trust must execute the note, but may do so without recourse for the exclusive purpose of
subjecting its interest in the property to the lien of the mortgage. See B8-5-02, Inter Vivos Revocable
Trust Mortgage Documentation and Signature Requirements for more information about the
Published June 3, 2026
897
documentation requirements for mortgages granted by inter vivos revocable trusts, including appropriate
forms of signature for the note.
A borrower’s signature should not contradict the name typed below the signature line on the note. Slight
variations are acceptable—a missing initial, the omission of a “Jr” or “Sr,” or an over- or under-signing (such as a
borrower signing as William Thomas Smith when the typed name is William T. Smith, or vice versa). Signiﬁcant
variations—such as William Smith signing as “Skip” Smith, signing with an “X,” or signing under an “also known
as” name—are not acceptable unless the lender obtains a name aﬃdavit from the borrower stating that they
commonly use the alternative signature.
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
The following persons also may be eligible to sign the note on a borrower’s behalf in accordance with the
guidelines below.
An attorney-in-fact may sign the note. See  B8-5-05, Requirements for Use of a Power of Attorney, for
further requirements governing the use of a power of attorney.
A court-appointed guardian may sign the note if the borrower is not legally competent, provided that
they have unlimited power over the ward’s aﬀairs, including the power to hold, convey, and give a lien
against real property owned by the ward, to make payments from the ward’s assets, and to permit
inquiries concerning the ward’s credit. The lender should obtain a copy of the documents making the
appointment. If the guardian in some other capacity is a party to the loan or sale transaction—for
example, the seller of the property—the lender should ascertain that there are no material conﬂicts of
interest.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-01 February 07, 2024
B8-3-04, Note Endorsement (10/02/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on note endorsement, including:
Note Endorsement
Using an Allonge for the Endorsement
Signature Requirements for Endorsements