SECTION: B8-3-01
TITLE: Notes for Conventional Mortgages
EFFECTIVE: 09/02/2020
PAGES: 911-913
---
Published June 3, 2026
893
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
Borrowers’ Signatures on Security Instruments
The following person(s) must sign the security instrument:
Each person who has an ownership interest in the security property, even if the person’s income is not
used in qualifying for the loan.
The spouse or domestic partner of any person who has an interest in the property, if their signature is
necessary under applicable state law to waive any property right they have by virtue of being the owner’s
spouse or domestic partner.
Signature Requirements: Powers of Attorney and Guardianship
The following persons may sign security instruments on a borrower’s behalf:
An attorney-in-fact may sign the security instrument, as long as the lender obtains a copy of the
applicable power of attorney. In jurisdictions where a power of attorney used for a signature on a security
instrument must be recorded with the security instrument, the lender must ensure that recordation has
been eﬀected. See B8-5-05, Requirements for Use of a Power of Attorney, for further requirements
governing the use of a power of attorney.
A court-appointed guardian may sign the security instrument if the borrower is not legally competent,
provided that they have unlimited power over the ward’s aﬀairs, including the power to hold, convey, and
give a lien against real property owned by the ward, to make payments from the ward’s assets, and to
permit inquiries concerning the ward’s credit. The lender should obtain a copy of the documents making
the appointment. If the guardian in some other capacity is a party to the loan or sale transaction—for
example, the seller of the property—the lender should ascertain that there are no material conﬂicts of
interest.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter B8-3, Notes
Introduction
This chapter describes requirements for conventional ﬁrst and second mortgages notes, special note provisions,
and signature and endorsement requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
894
B8-3-01, Notes for Conventional Mortgages (09/02/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on notes for conventional loans, including:
Use of Conventional First Mortgage Notes
Adjustable-Rate Mortgage Notes
Use of Conventional First Mortgage Notes
Lenders should use the note that is correct for the applicable mortgage type, lien type, property type, and
product type for regularly amortizing conventional mortgages that are closed on the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac
uniform security instruments.
Fannie Mae publishes state-speciﬁc ﬁxed-rate notes for ten jurisdictions (although they are not available for all
products). The multistate note can be used in most jurisdictions unless the security property is located in a
jurisdiction for which Fannie Mae publishes a state-speciﬁc mortgage note.
The various notes that are used for ﬁxed-rate mortgages may be found on Fannie Mae's  Legal Documents
website. Authorized changes that must or may be made to these documents are set out in the instructions that
accompany each document.
Adjustable-Rate Mortgage Notes
Generally, notes for adjustable-rate mortgages apply to speciﬁc ARM plans. Fannie Mae does not publish state-
speciﬁc notes for all ARM plans. If Fannie Mae does not publish state-speciﬁc documents for a particular ARM
plan, the lender must use the multistate note for that particular ARM plan and amend it as necessary to satisfy
the requirements of the jurisdiction in which the security property is located. Required amendments may be
incorporated by reprinting the amended documents, adding addenda to the documents, or making the changes
on the documents themselves. The various notes that are used for ARMs may be found on Fannie Mae's Legal
Documents website. Authorized changes that must or may be made to these documents are set out in the
instructions that accompany each document.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-05 September 02, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
Published June 3, 2026
895
 
B8-3-02, Special Note Provisions and Language Requirements
(06/03/2020)
Introduction
This topic contains information on special note provisions and language requirements, including:
Late Charges for Conventional Mortgages
Requirement for Unit Number
Mandatory Arbitration
Late Charges for Conventional Mortgages
The note for a conventional ﬁrst mortgage must include information about the late charge to be assessed for
any payment that is not received by the 15th day after it becomes due. The amount of the late charge must
meet the following requirements:
The amount must be permissible under applicable law.
The late charge must be a minimum of 0% and up to 5% of the principal and interest (P&I) payment.
Requirement for Unit Number
If the subject property is a condo or other property type that is identiﬁed by a unit number, the unit number
must be included in the property address on the note.
Mandatory Arbitration
Mandatory arbitration is a loan provision or an agreement accompanying the loan that requires the borrower to
submit to arbitration any disputes arising out of or relating in any way to the mortgage transaction. Mortgages
that are subject to mandatory arbitration are ineligible for sale to, or securitization by, Fannie Mae unless the
mandatory arbitration provision provides that, in the event of a transfer or sale of the mortgage or an interest in
the mortgage to Fannie Mae, the mandatory arbitration clause immediately and automatically becomes null and
void and cannot be reinstated.
The lender must provide the borrower with written notice of the waiver provision within 60 days of the transfer
or sale of the mortgage to Fannie Mae. That notice must contain substantially the following language:
Pursuant to your mortgage documents, Fannie Mae is hereby notifying you that an interest in your loan
has been transferred or sold to Fannie Mae and therefore the mandatory arbitration clause of your