SECTION: B8-4-01
TITLE: Riders and Addenda
EFFECTIVE: 06/05/2018
PAGES: 917-919
---
Published June 3, 2026
899
a resolution from the lender’s board of directors authorizing speciﬁc oﬃcers by name or title to use
facsimile signatures, stating that facsimile signatures are a valid and binding act on the lender’s part, and
authorizing the lender’s corporate secretary to certify the validity of the resolution, and the names or
titles of the oﬃcers authorized to execute documents by using facsimile signatures, and the authenticity
of specimen forms of facsimile signatures;
the corporate secretary’s certiﬁcation of the authenticity and validity of the board of director’s resolution;
a notarized certiﬁcation of facsimile signature, which includes both the facsimile and the original
signatures of the signing oﬃcer(s) and each oﬃcer’s certiﬁcation that the facsimile is a true and correct
copy of their original signature.
The mortgage seller may not delegate to an attorney-in-fact its authority to execute an endorsement. The
endorsement may not be executed by a party using a power of attorney.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
 
Chapter B8-4, Riders and Addenda
Introduction
This chapter provides information on riders and addenda.
B8-4-01, Riders and Addenda (06/05/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information on riders and addenda, including:
General Information
Uniform Riders and Fannie Mae-Speciﬁc Riders to Security Instruments
General Information
Published June 3, 2026
900
There are special conditions that require modiﬁcation of a security instrument (usually by a rider) or a note
(usually by an addendum). These conditions may relate to the type of borrower (inter vivos revocable trusts),
the type of security property (units in project developments, multiple-dwelling units, and leasehold estates), the
occupancy status of the property (second homes or investment properties), the amortization method used for
the mortgage (adjustable-rate mortgages), or the type of mortgage product (HUD Section 184 mortgages that
are combination construction/permanent mortgages, or HomeStyle Renovation mortgages).
Uniform Riders and Fannie Mae-Speciﬁc Riders to Security Instruments
There are uniform Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac riders to security instruments, as well as some Fannie Mae-speciﬁc
riders. There are also some situations in which Fannie Mae requires a rider to security instruments, but Fannie
Mae has not developed a speciﬁc form. In some cases, Fannie Mae may oﬀer language that a lender may
include in the rider, even though Fannie Mae did not develop a speciﬁc document.
The various riders that are used for regularly amortizing ﬁrst mortgages may be found on Fannie Mae's  Legal
Documents  website. Authorized changes that must or may be made to these documents are set out in the
Summary Page that accompanies each document.
Security instruments must be amended by one or more uniform riders or Fannie Mae-speciﬁc riders, as
applicable, including:
Uniform or Fannie Mae-Speciﬁc Rider Purpose
The Multistate PUD Rider (Form 3150) or the
Multistate Condominium Rider (Form 3140)
Required for a mortgage that is secured by a unit in a PUD
or condo project. Fannie Mae also has developed special
riders for Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans that are secured by
units in condo or PUD projects.
In some states, co-op share loan documents must
incorporate a co-op rider. Fannie Mae has not developed a
standard multistate form for that rider, so the lender
should contact its Fannie Mae customer account team to
determine Fannie Mae’s documentation requirements for
co-op share loan riders.
The Multistate 1–4 Family Rider (Form 3170)
Required for a mortgage secured by a one- to four-unit
investment property or a two- to four-unit principal
residence.
The Multistate Second Home Rider (Form
3890) Required for a mortgage secured by a second home.
Published June 3, 2026
901
Uniform or Fannie Mae-Speciﬁc Rider Purpose
The applicable Multistate Adjustable Rate
Rider (and, if applicable, an addendum to
the rider)
Required for all adjustable-rate mortgages. There are a
number of diﬀerent versions of this rider, based on the
applicable ARM plan or index. Fannie Mae also requires a
special ARM rider for Texas Section 50(a)(6) loan
adjustable-rate mortgages.
The model Multistate Renovation Loan Rider
to Security Instrument (Form 3732) and the
Multistate Renovation Investor Rider to
Security Instrument (Form 3733)
May be appropriately modiﬁed and used for HomeStyle
Renovation mortgages. For other special-purpose
documents for these HomeStyle products, see B8-5-03,
HomeStyle Renovation Mortgage Documentation
Requirements.
Revocable Trust Rider
May be used to amend security instruments for mortgages
with inter vivos trust borrowers. Fannie Mae has
developed a sample rider for mortgages that are made to
inter vivos trust borrowers and are secured by California
properties. See B8-5-02, Inter Vivos Revocable Trust
Mortgage Documentation and Signature Requirements, for
more information about the use of this rider and similar
riders.
A rider that includes a cross-default
provision
Must be used to amend security instruments for
mortgages secured by leasehold estates so that a default
on the lease is a default on the mortgage. Fannie Mae
does not publish a standard rider that includes this
provision.
A construction loan rider
Must be used to amend security instruments for HUD
Section 184 mortgages that are combination
construction/permanent mortgages. Fannie Mae does not
publish a standard construction loan rider for government
mortgages.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.