SECTION: B8-5-04
TITLE: Sample Legal Documents
EFFECTIVE: 02/05/2025
PAGES: 925-926
---
Published June 3, 2026
907
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B8-5-04, Sample Legal Documents (02/05/2025)
Introduction
This topic provides documentation requirements for the following:
Subsidized Second Mortgages in Community Seconds Transactions
Mortgages Secured by Property Located on Community Land Trusts
Subsidized Second Mortgages in Community Seconds Transactions
Fannie Mae has not developed legal documents for the second mortgage component of a Community Seconds
transaction; rather, the subsidized second mortgage should be closed on documents developed or acquired by
the subsidy provider. Second mortgage loans delivered to Fannie Mae must meet Fannie Mae requirements or
have received prior approval on a negotiated basis.
A lender’s review of the legal documents should concentrate on determining that the security instrument for the
subsidized second mortgage—and any other covenants or restrictions on the borrower’s ability to sell the
property or to use the land that the subsidy provider has recorded, or may later record against the
property—are clearly subordinate to the ﬁrst mortgage lien.
The legal documents also must set forth any and all conditions that constitute a default under the terms of the
subsidized second mortgage.
Conditions that Fannie Mae considers acceptable include the borrower’s:
failure to make scheduled payments due on the mortgage;
failure to occupy the property as a principal residence;
misrepresentation of any condition required for obtaining the mortgage (such as whether the borrower
satisﬁes any applicable income limitations);
payoﬀ of the ﬁrst mortgage;
reﬁnancing of the ﬁrst mortgage to cash out their equity in the property;
selling or transferring the property to a party that is ineligible to receive the subsidy (although property
transfers that are exempt from enforcement of due-on-sale provisions under federal law must be allowed
even if the party acquiring the property is not eligible for the subsidy, subject to the party’s assumption
of the borrower’s obligations); and
voluntary termination of their employment (for any reason other than disability), if their employer is the
subsidy provider.
If other default provisions are included in the legal documents for the ﬁrst or second mortgage, the borrower
Published June 3, 2026
908
and the subsidy provider must execute a rider to nullify or amend those provisions.
See Section B5-5.1, Community Seconds, for more information.
Mortgages Secured by Property Located on Community Land Trusts
Mortgages secured by properties located on a community land trust are subject to a ground lease, which
includes provisions that require the continued use of the property for low- and moderate-income families, and
limits the maximum sales price of the property.
For such loans, Fannie Mae requires the lessor and the borrower to execute a Community Land Trust Ground
Lease Rider.
The purpose of the rider is to ensure the ground lease conforms to Fannie Mae’s guidelines for community land
trust loans without the delay that would result from the lender’s obtaining Fannie Mae’s approval of each
ground lease. Fannie Mae’s approval is required, however, if the rider is modiﬁed or is not executed. See
B5-5.3-02, Shared Equity Transactions: General Requirements , for more information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-01 February 05, 2025
B8-5-05, Requirements for Use of a Power of Attorney (10/05/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on requirements for use of a power of attorney, including:
Overview
General Exception to Power of Attorney Requirements
Eligibility Requirements for Using a Power of Attorney
Overview
A power of attorney (POA) is a legal document giving one person (described below as the “agent”) the power to
legally bind another person. Loans with documentation executed by an agent on behalf of the borrower under a
POA are eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae if all requirements referenced in this Guide are met.
When title to mortgaged property is held by a trustee under an inter vivos revocable trust, loan documentation