SECTION: B8-5-01
TITLE: General Information on Special-Purpose Legal Documents
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2019
PAGES: 920-921
---
Published June 3, 2026
902
Chapter B8-5, Special-Purpose Legal Documents
Introduction
This chapter provides information on special-purpose legal documents and related requirements.
B8-5-01, General Information on Special-Purpose Legal Documents
(05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains information on special-purpose legal documents.
General Information
General Information
Fannie Mae has specialized mortgage loan documentation that a borrower must execute to ensure that any
required additional responsibilities, obligations, or rights of the borrower, the lender, or a third party are set out
in legal documents that are separate and apart from the security instruments, notes, and riders that are
typically used for mortgages delivered to Fannie Mae. These specialized legal documents are required for:
mortgages to inter vivos revocable trusts,
co-op share loans,
Texas Section 50(a)(6) loans,
HomeStyle Renovation mortgages,
second mortgages that are part of a Community Seconds transaction, and
loans secured by community land trust properties.
Information about the requirements for each of these specialized mortgage documents can be found in the
remaining topics in this chapter, and in B5-4.1-03, Texas Section 50(a)(6) Loan Underwriting, Collateral, and
Closing Considerations. See Fannie Mae's  Legal Documents  website for the specialized legal documents.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
903
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
B8-5-02, Inter Vivos Revocable Trust Mortgage Documentation and
Signature Requirements (10/31/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the mortgage documentation and signature requirements for revocable
trusts, including:
Execution and Signature Requirements
Signature Requirements When the Borrower is Individual and Inter Vivos Revocable Trust is Mortgagor
Trustee Exclusion from Personal Liability
Deﬁning the Responsible Borrower in an Inter Vivos Revocable Trust
Requirements for Revocable Trust Riders
Requirements for Amended Security Instrument
Requirements for Standard Security Instrument and No Rider
Indemniﬁcation
Execution and Signature Requirements
The note must be executed in accordance with E-2-04, Signature Requirements for Mortgages to Inter Vivos
Revocable Trusts. The trustee(s) of the inter vivos revocable trust also must execute the security instrument
and any applicable rider.
Each individual establishing the trust whose credit is used to qualify for the mortgage must acknowledge all of
the terms and covenants in the security instrument and any necessary rider, and must agree to be bound
thereby, by placing their signature after a statement of acknowledgment on such documents.
Any other party that Fannie Mae requires to sign either the mortgage note or the security instrument also must
execute the applicable document(s).
E-2-04, Signature Requirements for Mortgages to Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts, includes the form of signature
for the trustee(s) and the statement of acknowledgment for each individual establishing the trust whose credit
is used to qualify for the mortgage.
Signature Requirements When the Borrower is Individual and Inter Vivos