SECTION: B8-5-02
TITLE: Inter Vivos Revocable Trust Mortgage Documentation and Signature Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 10/31/2017
PAGES: 921-924
---
Published June 3, 2026
903
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
B8-5-02, Inter Vivos Revocable Trust Mortgage Documentation and
Signature Requirements (10/31/2017)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the mortgage documentation and signature requirements for revocable
trusts, including:
Execution and Signature Requirements
Signature Requirements When the Borrower is Individual and Inter Vivos Revocable Trust is Mortgagor
Trustee Exclusion from Personal Liability
Deﬁning the Responsible Borrower in an Inter Vivos Revocable Trust
Requirements for Revocable Trust Riders
Requirements for Amended Security Instrument
Requirements for Standard Security Instrument and No Rider
Indemniﬁcation
Execution and Signature Requirements
The note must be executed in accordance with E-2-04, Signature Requirements for Mortgages to Inter Vivos
Revocable Trusts. The trustee(s) of the inter vivos revocable trust also must execute the security instrument
and any applicable rider.
Each individual establishing the trust whose credit is used to qualify for the mortgage must acknowledge all of
the terms and covenants in the security instrument and any necessary rider, and must agree to be bound
thereby, by placing their signature after a statement of acknowledgment on such documents.
Any other party that Fannie Mae requires to sign either the mortgage note or the security instrument also must
execute the applicable document(s).
E-2-04, Signature Requirements for Mortgages to Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts, includes the form of signature
for the trustee(s) and the statement of acknowledgment for each individual establishing the trust whose credit
is used to qualify for the mortgage.
Signature Requirements When the Borrower is Individual and Inter Vivos
Published June 3, 2026
904
Revocable Trust is Mortgagor
When one or more inter vivos revocable trusts eligible under B2-2-05, Inter Vivos Revocable Trusts hold title to
the mortgaged property (alone or with another eligible inter vivos revocable trust), only an individual who is
both grantor and primary beneﬁciary of one of the trusts may be a borrower and must sign the note in their
individual capacity. In addition, each inter vivos revocable trust, acting through its trustee(s), is required to sign
the note in connection with its grant of the mortgage. The inter vivos revocable trust may sign the note without
recourse so that its liability for repayment of the note is limited to its interest in the mortgaged property. Such
non-recourse status does not aﬀect or otherwise limit the personal liability of the individual establishing the
inter vivos revocable trust under the note, and is in addition to the limitations on personal liability for certain
trustees of inter vivos revocable trusts in the Selling Guide.
When an individual borrower has a direct ownership interest in the property, no other person (including a trust)
is required to sign the note (except other borrowers).
Trustee Exclusion from Personal Liability
Certain trustees may request exclusion from personal liability under the mortgage instruments. Lenders may
agree to such requests, subject to the following conditions:
Institutional trustees and individual trustees (other than individuals serving as trustees who both
established the trust and whose credit is used to qualify for the mortgage) may be excluded from
personal liability under the security instrument.
Institutional trustees and individual trustees (other than individuals serving as trustees whose credit is
used to qualify for the mortgage, including individuals who established the trust) may be excluded from
personal liability under the mortgage note.
Lenders that agree to modify the mortgage instruments to include an exclusion from personal liability are
responsible for ensuring that the modifying language:
pertains only to the relevant trustee,
does not impair the note holder’s power to foreclose, and
does not in any way release from liability any individual trustee who is not identiﬁed above as being
permitted to be released from liability.
Deﬁning the Responsible Borrower in an Inter Vivos Revocable Trust
Exhibit E-2-03, Revocable Trust Rider (Sample Language), includes sample language for a revocable trust rider.
This rider (or a similar one appropriately modiﬁed to reﬂect the requirements of speciﬁc states) avoids
ambiguities for mortgages made to inter vivos revocable trusts by clarifying who is considered to be “the
borrower” with respect to any given covenant in the security instrument.
Instead of using a revocable trust rider, the lender may either:
amend the security instrument to include appropriate deﬁnitions and language similar in substance to
Published June 3, 2026
905
Fannie Mae’s sample rider, or
use the standard security instrument without such an amendment or the rider.
Requirements for Revocable Trust Riders
If the lender chooses to require a revocable trust rider as additional mortgage documentation, the rider must
be:
executed by the trustee(s) of the inter vivos revocable trust and by any other party that Fannie Mae
requires to sign the security instrument, and
acknowledged by each individual establishing the trust whose credit is used to qualify for the mortgage.
If the mortgage is secured by a California property, the lender should use Fannie Mae’s sample rider. If the
mortgage is secured by property located in another state, the lender should use a rider that has been
appropriately modiﬁed to reﬂect the requirements of that state (unless the lender determines that use of Fannie
Mae’s sample Revocable Trust Rider is appropriate for the speciﬁc state).
Should foreclosure proceedings have to be initiated for a mortgage secured by a property located in a state
other than California, the lender must indemnify and hold Fannie Mae harmless against any losses incurred by
Fannie Mae that relate either
to the modiﬁcations the lender made to the Fannie Mae sample rider (or to the inappropriate use of the
Fannie Mae sample rider), or
to any ambiguity in the application of the covenants in the security instrument.
Alternatively, Fannie Mae may require the lender to repurchase the mortgage or the acquired property.
Requirements for Amended Security Instrument
If the lender chooses to amend the security instrument instead of using a revocable trust rider, it should follow
Fannie Mae’s instructions regarding parties who must sign the security instrument, including having only the
individuals establishing the trust whose credit is used to qualify for the mortgage sign a statement of
acknowledgment of the security instrument.
The lender must indemnify and hold Fannie Mae harmless against any losses incurred by Fannie Mae that relate
either to the lender’s amendment or to any ambiguity in the application of the covenants in the security
instrument should foreclosure proceedings later have to be initiated to acquire the property. Alternatively,
Fannie Mae may require the lender to repurchase the mortgage or the acquired property.
Requirements for Standard Security Instrument and No Rider
If the lender chooses not to amend the security instrument and not to use the revocable trust rider, it must
agree to indemnify and hold Fannie Mae harmless against any losses incurred by Fannie Mae that relate to any
ambiguity in the application of the covenants in the security instrument should foreclosure proceedings later
have to be initiated to acquire the property. Alternatively, Fannie Mae may require the lender to repurchase the
Published June 3, 2026
906
mortgage or the acquired property.
Indemniﬁcation
The lender’s obligation to indemnify Fannie Mae as noted above is further described in A2-1-03, Indemniﬁcation
for Losses.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
B8-5-03, HomeStyle Renovation Mortgage Documentation
Requirements (06/05/2018)
Introduction
This topic contains information on HomeStyle mortgage documentation requirements.
HomeStyle Mortgage Documentation Requirements
HomeStyle Mortgage
HomeStyle Mortgage Documentation Requirements
This section describes Fannie Mae’s requirements for security instruments, notes, riders, and addenda for
HomeStyle Renovation mortgages. In addition, Fannie Mae has developed other model documents for use in
connection with HomeStyle mortgages. Because these documents are model documents, they may need to be
amended for certain types of lenders or particular types of transactions.
HomeStyle Mortgage
The mortgage or an appropriate rider to the security instrument (“renovation loan rider to security instrument”
or “security instrument rider”) must
grant the lender a security interest in any personal property (including building materials) located in, or
on, or used, or intended to be used, in connection with the work, and
provide that a borrower default under the renovation loan agreement must constitute a default under the
security instrument and the note, and
grant the lender an assignment of rents as additional security for the loan and the right to appointment of
a receiver of rents if the property is held for rental purposes.
Recent Related Announcements