SECTION: B8-6-01
TITLE: Authorized Use of Intervening and Blanket Assignments
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 929-931
---
Published June 3, 2026
911
The POA expressly authorizes the agent to execute the required loan documents on behalf of the
borrower.
In a recorded, interactive session conducted via the internet, and to the satisfaction of the agent, the
borrower must
conﬁrm their identity;
after reviewing the required loan documents, reaﬃrm their agreement to the terms and conditions
of the note and security instrument evidencing the transaction; and
reaﬃrm their agreement to the execution of the loan documents by the agent.
At Fannie Mae’s request the lender must produce a recording and other documentary media
memorializing the entirety of the interactive session. Such request may be at any time during the term of
the related loan. The lender must comply within a commercially reasonable time following such request
and without additional expense to Fannie Mae.
If the agent is an employee of the title insurer or is an employee of the policy-issuing agent of the title
insurer, then unless unavailable under applicable law, such title insurer must issue a closing protection
letter (or similar contractual protection) for the transaction for the policy-issuing agent.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-09 October 05, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-02 March 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-05 June 05, 2019
 
Chapter B8-6, Mortgage Assignments
Introduction
This chapter describes Fannie Mae requirements related to mortgage assignments.
Published June 3, 2026
912
B8-6-01, Authorized Use of Intervening and Blanket Assignments
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the authorized use of intervening and blanket assignments, including:
Intervening Assignments
Blanket Assignments
Special Provision for Puerto Rico
Intervening Assignments
If the originating lender is not servicing the loan at the time of the sale to Fannie Mae, then unless the loan has
been registered with MERS or the loan is secured by a property in Puerto Rico, the seller of the loan must cause
to be recorded one or more intervening assignments of mortgage to ensure there are eﬀective mortgage
assignment(s) from the originating lender to the servicer.  Copies of all such assignments must be retained in
the loan ﬁle.
Blanket Assignments
Lenders may use blanket assignments for any intervening assignments that take place before the mortgage is
sold to Fannie Mae, as long as this type of assignment is acceptable to the applicable recording jurisdiction
(blanket assignments are assignments that cover more than one mortgage). Each blanket assignment must
relate to a single recording jurisdiction.
The lender may be required to indemnify Fannie Mae (as described in  A2-1-03, Indemniﬁcation for Losses), for
any losses incurred by Fannie Mae due to the lender’s failure to obtain, record (if applicable), and retain the
necessary intervening assignments. Alternatively, Fannie Mae may require the lender to repurchase the
mortgage or the security property.
Special Provision for Puerto Rico
Assignments of mortgages generally are not recordable in Puerto Rico. Therefore, no intervening assignments
need to be prepared, recorded, or retained in the individual mortgage loan ﬁle.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
913
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
Chapter B8-7, Mortgage Electronic Registration System
(MERS)
Introduction
This chapter provides information related to mortgage loans registered with MERS.
B8-7-01, Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems (MERS), Inc.
(05/01/2024)
Introduction
The MERS system is an electronic system that assists in the tracking of loans, servicing rights, and security
interests. To initiate the electronic tracking, the seller/servicer assigns a special MERS Mortgage Identiﬁcation
Number (MIN) to the loan and registers it in MERS. This topic contains information about MERS, including:
Naming MERS as the Nominee for the Beneﬁciary in the Security Instrument
Requirements for the Use of MERS in Speciﬁed Geographic Areas
MERS Registration
Use of the MIN
Mortgage Assignment to MERS
Termination of MERS
Naming MERS as the Nominee for the Beneﬁciary in the Security Instrument
A seller/servicer that wants to register a newly originated loan with MERS may prefer to designate MERS as the
nominee for the beneﬁciary in the security instrument. Doing so, eliminates the need for a subsequent
assignment of the security instrument should the seller/servicer sell (or transfer servicing of) the loan to another
seller/servicer that is a member of MERS. In such cases, the applicable security instrument must be modiﬁed to: