SECTION: C1-2-03
TITLE: Ownership of Mortgage Loans Prior to Purchase or Securitization and Third-Party Security Interests
EFFECTIVE: 04/06/2022
PAGES: 951-953
---
Published June 3, 2026
933
UCD XML ﬁle must contain the borrower data and the PDF of the borrower Closing Disclosure. Lenders must
submit the UCD XML ﬁle for all conventional loans, regardless of whether the TILA/Regulation Z Rule requires
the Closing Disclosure, including non-owner-occupied property loans.
For additional information on the UCD data requirements, refer to the UCD Delivery Speciﬁcation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-01 February 03. 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C1-2-03, Ownership of Mortgage Loans Prior to Purchase or
Securitization and Third-Party Security Interests (04/06/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the following:
Mortgage Loan Certiﬁcation Overview
Control of Mortgage Notes During the Loan Certiﬁcation Processes
Ownership Interest and Title to Mortgage Notes
Conﬂicts Regarding Rights in Mortgages
Mortgage Loan Certiﬁcation Overview
The Fannie Mae certiﬁcation processes for whole loan and MBS deliveries are designed to assure Fannie Mae
and the marketplace that all mortgage loans purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae conform to Fannie Mae’s
requirements and are not subject to any liens or claims of any third parties. Therefore, it is in Fannie Mae’s
interest that liens and claims in and to such notes are properly resolved as part of the loan pooling, certiﬁcation,
and acquisition processes.
Published June 3, 2026
934
It is critical to Fannie Mae’s purchase or securitization of mortgage loans that Fannie Mae receives good delivery
of loans that conform to Fannie Mae’s requirements and, if applicable, meet the characteristics attributed to
them in MBS disclosures. Therefore, Fannie Mae requires that mortgage sellers deliver mortgage documents to
document custodians for review and certiﬁcation prior to Fannie Mae’s purchase or securitization of the loans.
Document custodians must review all documents to ensure that all of the required documentation has been
received and conform to Fannie Mae’s requirements. Fannie Mae will not purchase whole loans or issue MBS
until after it has received the document custodian’s certiﬁcation. The certiﬁcation will state that the custodian
has examined and maintains physical custody and control of the required documents for the mortgages.
Control of Mortgage Notes During the Loan Certiﬁcation Processes
Fannie Mae recognizes that possession of notes is an important element of a note owner’s or secured lender’s
protection of its rights. However, the nature of the whole loan purchase and MBS pooling and securitization
processes requires that Fannie Mae, through its document custodian, obtains control of the notes as part of the
certiﬁcation review process and maintains control through the completion of the purchase or securitization
process. Fannie Mae cannot purchase whole loans or permit pools to close and securities to be issued without
being assured of continued control of the underlying notes.
Fannie Mae does not assert that it obtains ownership or title to the notes during the certiﬁcation processes until
such time as the purchase proceeds (cash or securities) for the certiﬁed loans are remitted pursuant to the
terms of the purchase or securitization transaction. Any modiﬁcations or revisions to the terms of the notes or
further physical movement of the notes during these processes are restricted; the certiﬁed documents must be
“locked down” under the document custodian’s control prior to Fannie Mae’s remittance of the purchase
proceeds. Fannie Mae recognizes that the legal rights of the mortgage seller delivering the notes (or, as
applicable, of its warehouse lender) are unaﬀected by the certiﬁcation processes until Fannie Mae has remitted
purchase proceeds.
Ownership Interest and Title to Mortgage Notes
Eﬀective upon the remittance of the purchase proceeds, Fannie Mae and/or its MBS trusts obtains and holds
ownership and title to the notes and the notes will then be held by the document custodian on behalf of Fannie
Mae. If the transaction fails to close as contemplated by the contract between Fannie Mae and the mortgage
seller and purchase proceeds are not wired, Fannie Mae claims no ownership interest in the notes and requires
that the document custodian return the notes to the mortgage seller or its warehouse lender, as applicable.
Conﬂicts Regarding Rights in Mortgages
If Fannie Mae becomes aware of any issues in which the rights of another party might impair its unqualiﬁed title
to any mortgages that are delivered to Fannie Mae (including but not limited to a bailee letter), then Fannie Mae
will not be required to deliver the related purchase proceeds in accordance with the lender’s delivery
instructions until the issue is resolved to Fannie Mae’s satisfaction and Fannie Mae receives adequate
assurances that it will have unqualiﬁed title to the mortgages.
Fannie Mae will not be responsible for the consequences of any delay in the delivery of the proceeds that results
from its having to resolve an issue related to title to the mortgages.
Published June 3, 2026
935
Fannie Mae has established procedures for resolving title issues presented by its receipt of a bailee letter. See 
C1-2-06, Bailee Letters for lender requirements and Fannie Mae’s Requirements for Document Custodians (RDC
guide) for document custodian requirements.
These processes are intended solely to verify the accuracy of certain loan information delivered by the
mortgage seller (and not to beneﬁt any third party). These procedures do not apply when the same corporate
entity is both the warehouse lender claiming an interest and the document custodian because, by its execution
of Fannie Mae’s Master Custodial Agreement, (Form 2017), the lender releases any interest it may have in the
mortgage notes when it takes possession of them as Fannie Mae’s document custodian.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides a reference to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-03 April 06, 2022
 
C1-2-04, Delivering eMortgages to Fannie Mae (12/13/2023)
Introduction
This topic contains information about delivering eMortgages to Fannie Mae, including:
Overview
Delivering eMortgages to Fannie Mae Using MERS eDelivery
Requirements to Transfer Control and Location of the eNote to Fannie Mae
Transfer of Control and Location to the Warehouse Lender
eNote Control Transfer and Custodial Agreement
Certiﬁcation and Custody of eMortgages
Loan Delivery Data
Overview
Lenders may deliver eMortgages for either whole loan or MBS execution. Fannie Mae accepts mixed MBS pools -
ones that contain both paper notes and eNotes. eMortgages are delivered to Fannie Mae via the MERS eDelivery
service. See MERS website for more information on MERS eDelivery.
Delivering eMortgages to Fannie Mae Using MERS eDelivery