SECTION: C1-2-02
TITLE: Loan Data and Documentation Delivery Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 10/04/2023
PAGES: 948-951
---
Published June 3, 2026
930
Receiving Sale Proceeds or Securities
When Fannie Mae purchases loans in fulﬁllment of a whole loan execution, it does so by sending funds via wire
transfer to an account designated by the lender for this purpose. For MBS transactions, Fannie Mae issues
securities to the lender, if the lender has elected to hold the securities in its portfolio, or to the investor
designated by the lender, if the lender has sold the securities before it delivers the loans to Fannie Mae. If the
lender has elected to use an “original issue” settlement to fund a forward trade through Fannie Mae’s Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts), the securities will be assigned directly to Fannie
Mae. For details speciﬁc to the two types of transactions, see C2-2-03, General Information on Whole Loan
Purchasing Policies, and C3-7-06, Settling the Trade, respectively.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C1-2-02, Loan Data and Documentation Delivery Requirements
(10/04/2023)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the loan data lenders must deliver to make good delivery, including:
Electronic Submission via Loan Delivery
Loan Delivery Application Resources
Seller/Servicer-Initiated Post-Purchase Adjustments
Special Feature Codes
Documentation Requirements
Delivery of the Fannie Mae Loan Number to the Document Custodian
Additional Required Electronic Submissions
Electronic Submission via Loan Delivery
Data for all loans must be electronically transmitted to Fannie Mae using Loan Delivery. Loan Delivery is a web-
based application that allows lenders to deliver whole loans for purchase and MBS loans for securitization to
Fannie Mae. Lenders can import loan and pool data, perform edits to facilitate error-free delivery, transfer loans
Published June 3, 2026
931
between commitments (or pools), track the status of loan deliveries, generate reports, and export loan and pool
data back to the lender’s organization.
Loans may only be submitted and purchased in Loan Delivery if they are clear of all fatal edits.  Loans are
subject to all fatal edits in Loan Delivery throughout the submission, loan documentation certiﬁcation and
acquisition purchase process.  If a loan encounters a fatal edit, the fatal edit must be resolved for Fannie Mae to
acquire the loan.
Loan Delivery Application Resources
For information regarding the Uniform Loan Delivery Dataset (ULDD) and the data delivery requirements, access
the ULDD page on Fannie Mae’s website. The Fannie Mae Implementation Guide for Loan Delivery Data,
Appendix D: Fannie Mae XML Data Reference, provides a listing of the ULDD required and conditionally required
data ﬁelds, as well as ﬁeld deﬁnitions and implementation notes. For additional guidance on ULDD, refer to the
following resources available on the ULDD page:
Frequently Asked Questions,
ULDD Speciﬁcation, and
General and Technical Implementation Resources.
Resources speciﬁc to the Loan Delivery application that support the delivery of the ULDD data can be found on
the Loan Delivery page on Fannie Mae’s website. This page includes links to various resources, including:
Loan Delivery Release Notes,
Loan Delivery Business Rules Dictionary, and
Loan Delivery Job Aids and User Guide (in Help & Training).
Seller/Servicer-Initiated Post-Purchase Adjustments
Lenders must notify Fannie Mae when
they determine there are discrepancies in the data attributes submitted to Fannie Mae at loan delivery
and their loan records,
they did not submit housing goal attributes at loan delivery, or
the property address has been rezoned.
Lenders must follow the post-purchase adjustment process to resolve these matters. For additional information
and instructions, see Fannie Mae's website. Also, see  C2-2-05, Whole Loan Purchasing Process for additional
information about reconciling the Purchase Advice and after sale corrections.
Lenders must submit data corrections within 18 months of the loan's acquisition date to be considered for
repricing of loan-level price adjustments (LLPAs). A minimum $100 requirement per loan (credit or debit) is also
required. The 18-month lookback period does not apply to the drafting or collection of repurchase alternative
fees. Fannie Mae, in its sole discretion, may adjust the minimum dollar amount and lookback period at any time.
Special Feature Codes
Published June 3, 2026
932
Lenders must include speciﬁc special feature code(s) (investor feature identiﬁer) as part of the delivery data
when delivering certain loans. Fannie Mae auto-derives certain special feature codes based on other data
submitted. Auto-derived special feature codes are not required to be included in the lender’s delivery data. For
a list of special feature codes, including those that are auto-derived, see Special Feature Codes.
If a lender fails to identify (or incorrectly identiﬁes on a consistent basis) any applicable special feature code(s)
when they submit loans that require these codes in fulﬁllment of a whole loan commitment or for inclusion in an
MBS pool, Fannie Mae may impose a compensatory fee. The amount of the fee will be based on:
the lender’s overall performance,
the lender’s explanation for their failure to comply,
previous instances of noncompliance,
the amount of any previous compensatory fee, and
any other factors Fannie Mae deems relevant.
For additional information about delivery of special feature codes, see the Special Feature Code section of the
Loan Delivery/ULDD Job Aids.
Documentation Requirements
Documentation requirements will diﬀer based on the type of loans being delivered to Fannie Mae. For additional
details, see C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans, C2-2-02, Documentation
Requirements for Whole Loan Deliveries, and  C3-7-04, Delivering MBS Pool Data and Documents, respectively.
See the Fannie Mae Requirements for Document Custodians (RDC guide) for document delivery and certiﬁcation
requirements.
Delivery of the Fannie Mae Loan Number to the Document Custodian
The lender is responsible for ensuring that the document custodian receives the Fannie Mae loan number for
every loan within 30 days of loan certiﬁcation. The lender must respond within three business days to any
request from the document custodian to provide the Fannie Mae loan number following the certiﬁcation of the
related mortgage loan.
Additional Required Electronic Submissions
Appraisal Data
Lenders must electronically submit certain appraisal reports through the UCDP prior to the delivery of the loan.
See B4-1.1-06, Uniform Appraisal Dataset (UAD) and the Uniform Collateral Data Portal (UCDP) for details on
these requirements.
Uniform Closing Dataset (UCD)
The UCD is a common industry dataset that allows information on the Closing Disclosure to be transmitted
electronically to Fannie Mae. Lenders are required to electronically submit a UCD XML ﬁle of the loan to Fannie
Mae and receive a “Successful” status from the UCD collection solution prior to the delivery of the loan. The
Published June 3, 2026
933
UCD XML ﬁle must contain the borrower data and the PDF of the borrower Closing Disclosure. Lenders must
submit the UCD XML ﬁle for all conventional loans, regardless of whether the TILA/Regulation Z Rule requires
the Closing Disclosure, including non-owner-occupied property loans.
For additional information on the UCD data requirements, refer to the UCD Delivery Speciﬁcation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2021-05 June 02, 2021
Announcement SEL-2021-01 February 03. 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C1-2-03, Ownership of Mortgage Loans Prior to Purchase or
Securitization and Third-Party Security Interests (04/06/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the following:
Mortgage Loan Certiﬁcation Overview
Control of Mortgage Notes During the Loan Certiﬁcation Processes
Ownership Interest and Title to Mortgage Notes
Conﬂicts Regarding Rights in Mortgages
Mortgage Loan Certiﬁcation Overview
The Fannie Mae certiﬁcation processes for whole loan and MBS deliveries are designed to assure Fannie Mae
and the marketplace that all mortgage loans purchased or securitized by Fannie Mae conform to Fannie Mae’s
requirements and are not subject to any liens or claims of any third parties. Therefore, it is in Fannie Mae’s
interest that liens and claims in and to such notes are properly resolved as part of the loan pooling, certiﬁcation,
and acquisition processes.