SECTION: C1-2-05
TITLE: Delivering Green MBS to Fannie Mae
EFFECTIVE: 09/04/2024
PAGES: 956-957
---
Published June 3, 2026
938
Add the eNote Indicator ﬂag to the corresponding loan(s) in Fannie Mae's Loan Delivery application which
identiﬁes the loan as an eMortgage loan; and 
Perform the usual whole loan or MBS delivery through Fannie Mae's Loan Delivery application.
NOTE: If for any reason an eMortgage must be transferred back to the lender (for example, in the
event of an error on the loan or transferred in error), the lender must submit Form 2009e to Fannie
Mae's Custodian Oversight and Monitoring Department to request the transfer (see  E-1-02, List of
Contacts).
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-11 December 13, 2023
 
C1-2-05, Delivering Green MBS to Fannie Mae (09/04/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information about delivering Green MBS to Fannie Mae, including:
Overview
Eligibility Requirements
Loan Delivery Data
Overview
Fannie Mae's Green MBS consists of loans secured by properties that have received approved green building
certiﬁcations within the last ﬁve years. An eligible green building certiﬁcation requires the home to be at least
10% more eﬃcient than a home built to an individual state's energy code. Lenders may deliver whole loans or
MBS.
Eligibility Requirements
Green MBS loans are subject to standard Selling Guide requirements, including the following:
Loans may be ARMs or ﬁxed-rate.
All property types are eligible.
Refer to the Eligibility Matrix for applicable LTV, CLTV and HCLTV ratio requirements.
Published June 3, 2026
939
The property must have one or more eligible green building certiﬁcations obtained within the last ﬁve
years. See Single-Family Green MBS Certiﬁcations for a list of current organizations that meet our
requirements. 
For whole loans: The loan must be sold within ﬁve years of the property's certiﬁcation year.
For loans in MBS: The pool must have a pool issuance year within ﬁve years of the property's
certiﬁcation year.
Example: For a loan secured by a property with a green building certiﬁcation received in the year 2020, the
loan must be sold to Fannie Mae by the end of 2025.
Loan Delivery Data
For a Green whole loan sale, lenders should contact their Fannie Mae Account Team (see  E-1-02, List of
Contacts).
For a Green MBS, lenders may use EarlyCheck or Loan Delivery to conﬁrm that all loans are Green MBS-eligible.
To be considered a Green MBS, 100% of the loans in the MBS must be eligible.
One of the following special feature codes must be delivered in addition to any other SFCs that may apply to the
transaction:
SFC 784 - ENERGY STAR green building certiﬁcation, or
SFC 881 - Department of Energy Zero Ready Home.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
C1-2-06, Bailee Letters (04/06/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides information on bailee letters, including:
Bailee Letters
Resolution of Mismatched Delivery Instructions
Liability for Losses Incurred by a Mortgage Seller or any Other Party