SECTION: C1-2-06
TITLE: Bailee Letters
EFFECTIVE: 04/06/2022
PAGES: 957-959
---
Published June 3, 2026
939
The property must have one or more eligible green building certiﬁcations obtained within the last ﬁve
years. See Single-Family Green MBS Certiﬁcations for a list of current organizations that meet our
requirements. 
For whole loans: The loan must be sold within ﬁve years of the property's certiﬁcation year.
For loans in MBS: The pool must have a pool issuance year within ﬁve years of the property's
certiﬁcation year.
Example: For a loan secured by a property with a green building certiﬁcation received in the year 2020, the
loan must be sold to Fannie Mae by the end of 2025.
Loan Delivery Data
For a Green whole loan sale, lenders should contact their Fannie Mae Account Team (see  E-1-02, List of
Contacts).
For a Green MBS, lenders may use EarlyCheck or Loan Delivery to conﬁrm that all loans are Green MBS-eligible.
To be considered a Green MBS, 100% of the loans in the MBS must be eligible.
One of the following special feature codes must be delivered in addition to any other SFCs that may apply to the
transaction:
SFC 784 - ENERGY STAR green building certiﬁcation, or
SFC 881 - Department of Energy Zero Ready Home.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
 
C1-2-06, Bailee Letters (04/06/2022)
Introduction
This topic provides information on bailee letters, including:
Bailee Letters
Resolution of Mismatched Delivery Instructions
Liability for Losses Incurred by a Mortgage Seller or any Other Party
Published June 3, 2026
940
Bailee Letters
Bailee letters typically state that:
the notes identiﬁed in the letter are pledged to the named third party,
the lien of the third party’s security interest will be released only if the proceeds from the transfer of the
mortgages to Fannie Mae are delivered to the third party in accordance with the delivery instructions in
the letter, and
the recipient holds the notes as a “bailee” (or in trust) for the third party until the third party either
receives the proceeds (cash or securities) or receives back the notes for any mortgages that were not
purchased or securitized.
The term “bailee letter” includes any communication that notiﬁes a document custodian of any of the following:
the notes are pledged to a third party;
the notes are subject to a security interest or lien held by a third party;
the notes are owned by, or titled in the name of, a third party (for example, mortgages that are subject to
a sale and repurchase arrangement); or
the notes are subject to some other claim or interest held by a third party that would, if it were not
released, result in Fannie Mae’s acquiring less than clear, unencumbered, and exclusive title to the
mortgage notes.
The requirements for processing bailee letters and other notiﬁcation of third-party interests in mortgage loans
can be found in Fannie Mae’s RDC guide.
Resolution of Mismatched Delivery Instructions
Fannie Mae will undertake to identify mismatches and to achieve matches in delivery instructions promptly, in
good faith, and in accordance with reasonable business practices.
Liability for Losses Incurred by a Mortgage Seller or any Other Party
Fannie Mae will not be liable for any losses that a mortgage seller or any other party incurs as the result of
Fannie Mae’s actions or omissions related to these procedures, including Fannie Mae’s execution of (or failure to
execute) speciﬁc steps, and any resulting delay.
A mortgage seller is obligated to ensure that Fannie Mae takes free and clear title to the mortgages it delivers
to Fannie Mae; therefore, it must make sure that its delivery instructions match those of its warehouse lender
before it delivers the mortgage to Fannie Mae. Because of this obligation, the mortgage seller will be fully
responsible for any trading or settlement delays (including those Fannie Mae experiences) that arise as the
result of mismatches in delivery instructions. (See C3-7-06, Settling the Trade, for information on how to settle
diﬀerent delivery instructions.) Further, the execution of these procedures will not constitute a waiver of any of
the rights and remedies Fannie Mae has under the mortgage seller’s representation and warranty that the title
Published June 3, 2026
941
to any mortgage note it delivers to Fannie Mae is free and clear of any security interest, lien, pledge, or other
encumbrance.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-03 April 06, 2022
 
Chapter C1-3, Loan Remittance Types Overview
Introduction
When selling loans to Fannie Mae, lenders must decide if they will service the loans or release the servicing to
another Fannie Mae-approved lender. They must also select a method for remitting borrower payments to
Fannie Mae. This chapter provides an overview regarding remitting payments to Fannie Mae.
C1-3-01, General Information on Remittance Types (08/26/2014)
Introduction
This topic provides an overview of borrower payment remittance types, including:
Overview
Actual/Actual
Scheduled/Scheduled
Scheduled/Actual
Overview
When taking down a commitment to sell whole loans to Fannie Mae, lenders must select a remittance type that
identiﬁes both the amount and timing for sending the borrowers’ mortgage payments to Fannie Mae. Not all
remittance types are available for all product types. For MBS mortgages, the only remittance type available is
Scheduled/Scheduled.
After Fannie Mae purchases a mortgage, it generally will not change the remittance type the lender has
selected. Refer to the applicable section of the Servicing Guide for more information about remittance types.