SECTION: C1-2-01
TITLE: General Information on Delivering Loan Data and Documents
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2019
PAGES: 947-948
---
Published June 3, 2026
929
C1-2-01, General Information on Delivering Loan Data and
Documents (05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic provides general information on a lender’s obligation to supply data and documentation of all loans
submitted to Fannie Mae for purchase, including:
Timing and Deadlines
Delivery Tolerances
Loan Qualiﬁcations
Receiving Sale Proceeds or Securities
Timing and Deadlines
A lender can begin to deliver loans against its commitments as soon as it receives a commitment conﬁrmation
number for whole loans, or an MBS commitment contract number for MBS loans. The lender must deliver the
loans required to fulﬁll the commitment prior to the commitment expiration date. Speciﬁcally, lenders must
submit loan data electronically, via Loan Delivery, and send the documentation package to the document
custodian.
Fannie Mae may reject a loan for a variety of reasons, including failure to meet Fannie Mae’s eligibility
requirements, incomplete or inaccurate loan delivery data, or incomplete document submission packages.
Fannie Mae may assess a late delivery fee for loans that are redelivered after a commitment has expired. See
C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans, and C2-2-02, Documentation Requirements
for Whole Loan Deliveries, for information concerning whole loan data and document delivery requirements and
C3-7-04, Delivering MBS Pool Data and Documents, for information concerning data and document delivery
requirements for loans in MBS pools.
Delivery Tolerances
For both whole loan and MBS deliveries, lenders may deliver an amount slightly higher or lower than the original
commitment amount, without charge. For information on delivery tolerances speciﬁc to whole loan sales and
MBS transactions, see C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees, and
C3-7-03, Making Good Delivery.
Loan Qualiﬁcations
Lenders must ensure that all loans selected for delivery meet Fannie Mae’s underwriting and eligibility
guidelines and legal requirements. The loan terms must also match the terms of the commitment, including
mortgage type, amortization, original term, and pass-through rate(s) selected for delivery when the
commitment was created.
Published June 3, 2026
930
Receiving Sale Proceeds or Securities
When Fannie Mae purchases loans in fulﬁllment of a whole loan execution, it does so by sending funds via wire
transfer to an account designated by the lender for this purpose. For MBS transactions, Fannie Mae issues
securities to the lender, if the lender has elected to hold the securities in its portfolio, or to the investor
designated by the lender, if the lender has sold the securities before it delivers the loans to Fannie Mae. If the
lender has elected to use an “original issue” settlement to fund a forward trade through Fannie Mae’s Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts), the securities will be assigned directly to Fannie
Mae. For details speciﬁc to the two types of transactions, see C2-2-03, General Information on Whole Loan
Purchasing Policies, and C3-7-06, Settling the Trade, respectively.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C1-2-02, Loan Data and Documentation Delivery Requirements
(10/04/2023)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the loan data lenders must deliver to make good delivery, including:
Electronic Submission via Loan Delivery
Loan Delivery Application Resources
Seller/Servicer-Initiated Post-Purchase Adjustments
Special Feature Codes
Documentation Requirements
Delivery of the Fannie Mae Loan Number to the Document Custodian
Additional Required Electronic Submissions
Electronic Submission via Loan Delivery
Data for all loans must be electronically transmitted to Fannie Mae using Loan Delivery. Loan Delivery is a web-
based application that allows lenders to deliver whole loans for purchase and MBS loans for securitization to
Fannie Mae. Lenders can import loan and pool data, perform edits to facilitate error-free delivery, transfer loans