SECTION: C1-3-01
TITLE: General Information on Remittance Types
EFFECTIVE: 08/26/2014
PAGES: 959-960
---
Published June 3, 2026
941
to any mortgage note it delivers to Fannie Mae is free and clear of any security interest, lien, pledge, or other
encumbrance.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-03 April 06, 2022
 
Chapter C1-3, Loan Remittance Types Overview
Introduction
When selling loans to Fannie Mae, lenders must decide if they will service the loans or release the servicing to
another Fannie Mae-approved lender. They must also select a method for remitting borrower payments to
Fannie Mae. This chapter provides an overview regarding remitting payments to Fannie Mae.
C1-3-01, General Information on Remittance Types (08/26/2014)
Introduction
This topic provides an overview of borrower payment remittance types, including:
Overview
Actual/Actual
Scheduled/Scheduled
Scheduled/Actual
Overview
When taking down a commitment to sell whole loans to Fannie Mae, lenders must select a remittance type that
identiﬁes both the amount and timing for sending the borrowers’ mortgage payments to Fannie Mae. Not all
remittance types are available for all product types. For MBS mortgages, the only remittance type available is
Scheduled/Scheduled.
After Fannie Mae purchases a mortgage, it generally will not change the remittance type the lender has
selected. Refer to the applicable section of the Servicing Guide for more information about remittance types.
Published June 3, 2026
942
Actual/Actual
The Actual/Actual (A/A) remittance type is available for whole loans. It is required for HUD-guaranteed and Rural
Development-guaranteed mortgages. Lenders must notify Fannie Mae immediately and remit the actual
principal and interest collected from the borrower, net of servicing fees, to Fannie Mae.
Scheduled/Scheduled
The Scheduled/Scheduled (S/S) remittance type is available on a negotiated basis for whole loans, including
ARMs, and fully amortizing ﬁxed-rate conventional monthly payment ﬁrst mortgages. It is required for MBS
mortgages. Lenders remit scheduled interest (net of servicing fees) and scheduled principal due, whether or not
payment is collected from the borrower.
Scheduled/Actual
The Scheduled/Actual (S/A) remittance type is available for whole loans. Lenders remit scheduled interest (net
of servicing fees) regardless of actual collections from the borrower and actual principal collected the month
following receipt of funds.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Subpart C2, Whole Loan Transactions
Introduction
This subpart includes Fannie Mae’s policies, parameters, and other information regarding the sale and delivery
of whole loans for cash. Whole loan products, commitment types and process, servicing fees, remittance types,
loan payments and purchase adjustments are covered in the ﬁrst chapter; requirements for good delivery,
extensions and pair-oﬀs, required data and documentation, funding and post-purchase adjustments in the
second chapter.
Chapter C2-1, Mandatory and Best Eﬀorts Commitments to
Sell Whole Loans
Introduction
As noted in this chapter, when a lender enters into a mandatory commitment to sell whole loans to Fannie Mae,
the lender agrees to deliver a speciﬁed dollar amount of loans, within certain tolerances, to Fannie Mae by a
speciﬁed future date. Fannie Mae agrees to purchase those loans at an agreed-upon price. With a best eﬀorts
commitment, the lender agrees to deliver a speciﬁc loan to Fannie Mae by a speciﬁed date if that loan closes.