SECTION: C2-1.2-03
TITLE: Best Efforts Commitment Terms, Amounts, and Other Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 03/03/2021
PAGES: 975-977
---
Published June 3, 2026
957
deliver the closed and committed loan to Fannie Mae, including when a lender (or a third-party originator who
originates in the lender's name) has solicited new pricing and committed or sold the loan to Fannie Mae or
another investor.
Fannie Mae may cancel a commitment and charge a pair-oﬀ fee in the event the property address is missing or
ﬁctitious or in the event the identical property address is used to enter into multiple commitments.
A duplicate commitment price adjustment will be assessed in the event a lender delivers a loan to Fannie Mae
against any other (duplicate) commitment(s) for the same borrower and property address committed prior to or
within 30 days of the original commitment's fallout or expiration date (the earlier of the two).
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Periods and Extension Fees
As is the case with mandatory commitments, best eﬀorts commitment periods may be as short as one day and
as long as 90 days. Lenders may extend commitments on or before the original commitment expiration date for
up to a maximum of 30 days for a fee. Lenders may request multiple extensions as long as the total extension
period is not longer than 30 days. A best eﬀorts commitment with a “Closed” loan status will automatically
extend for ﬁve calendar days until the loan is purchased or the commitment has been extended for a maximum
of 60 calendar days from the original expiration date. After a commitment has reached its maximum allowed
auto-extension period, the whole loan committing application will automatically pair oﬀ the “Closed” status
commitment.
Fannie Mae will notify lenders via the whole loan committing application of fees associated with extending the
commitment period. Once notice is given, payment of the fee becomes an absolute obligation.
Note: All committing fees and post purchase price adjustments will be drafted from the lender’s draft
account with Fannie Mae. All draft fees can be viewed on Fannie Mae’s website.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-02 March 03, 2021
 
C2-1.2-03, Best Eﬀorts Commitment Terms, Amounts, and Other
Requirements (03/03/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information on terms and other requirements associated with best eﬀorts commitments,
Published June 3, 2026
958
including:
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Terms and Amounts
Best Eﬀorts Servicing Options
Other Best Eﬀorts Requirements
DU Recommendations on Loans Delivered with Best Eﬀorts Commitments
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Terms and Amounts
By accepting any prices and delivering mortgages to Fannie Mae pursuant to a commitment obtained through
Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application, the lender conﬁrms that:
the lender is approved and continues to satisfy the eligibility requirements as described in this Guide, and
the mortgages comply with all Fannie Mae requirements in the Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract
and the Selling and Servicing Guides.
Fannie Mae will commit to pay to lenders proceeds that are based upon the acquisition price for committed
loans, subject to any applicable adjustments, as long as:
the key data and product type delivered matches the key data and product type reported to Fannie Mae
to enter into the commitment, and
the acquisition date is on or before the date upon which the commitment expires.
Best eﬀorts commitments are for a speciﬁc borrower, address, and commitment period. Loan substitution is not
allowed. Lenders may not change a best eﬀorts commitment to a mandatory commitment (or vice versa) or
change the remittance type from scheduled/scheduled to actual/actual (or vice versa).
Lenders must notify Fannie Mae via the whole loan committing application within one business day of any
change to the key data or product type that occurs during the commitment period. If there is a change to the
key data or product type and the new loan meets Fannie Mae’s eligibility requirements, the acquisition price for
the committed loan may be changed to reﬂect the revised information (using worse case pricing when
applicable).
Best Eﬀorts Servicing Options
Lenders may retain, release, or sell the servicing rights associated with the loans they deliver in fulﬁllment of a
best eﬀorts commitment. Lenders may also execute a concurrent transfer of servicing via the whole loan
committing application. If approved to participate in the Servicing Marketplace component of the whole loan
committing application, lenders have the option to retain servicing or arrange for the concurrent sale of
servicing to a participating servicer through the Servicing Marketplace. See C2-1.3-01, Servicing Marketplace,
for more information.
Those retaining or releasing servicing may do so using the actual/actual or scheduled/scheduled remittance
type. Certain products, however, require servicing via a speciﬁc remittance type. See C1-3-01, General
Information on Remittance Types, for information on remittance types and the Cash Remittance System for
details on remittance requirements for speciﬁc mortgage products.
Published June 3, 2026
959
For more information and to learn about additional terms and conditions associated with servicing-released
executions, lenders should contact their Fannie Mae customer account team or the Capital Markets Pricing and
Sales Desk for details.
Other Best Eﬀorts Requirements
Fannie Mae's active document custodians serve as custodians for loans delivered via a best eﬀorts execution.
For additional information on the role of document custodians, see C2-2-02, Documentation Requirements for
Whole Loan Deliveries. Also, refer to Fannie Mae's Active Document Custodians for a complete list of eligible
custodians.
Early funding is available for loans delivered in fulﬁllment of a best eﬀorts commitment. For details on this
option and other options, and terms and conditions associated with best eﬀorts commitments, lenders should
contact their Fannie Mae customer account team or the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
DU Recommendations on Loans Delivered with Best Eﬀorts Commitments
A lender may fulﬁll a best eﬀorts commitment by delivering a mortgage loan with a valid DU loan caseﬁle ID
that is associated with the lender's institution ID. The DU loan caseﬁle must have received a DU
recommendation of Approve/Eligible no earlier than 60 days prior to commitment. Alternatively, lenders may
select the “Other” Underwriting Method (as viewed in the whole loan committing application), in which case a
DU recommendation is not required.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-02 March 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Section C2-1.3, Servicing Execution Tool to Sell Whole Loans