SECTION: C2-1.1-05
TITLE: Servicing Fees
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2019
PAGES: 969-970
---
Published June 3, 2026
951
Fannie Mae’s sole discretion, the lender’s anticipated business strategy does not align with Fannie Mae’s use of
the cash back pair-oﬀ process.
Additionally, if any of the following events occur, Fannie Mae may immediately terminate a lender’s eligibility for
cash back pair-oﬀs:
Fannie Mae, in its sole discretion, determines that the lender is obtaining commitments without the intent
to deliver;
there is any suspension of the lender’s selling privileges under the Master Selling and Servicing Contract
(MSSC); or
the lender’s MSSC is terminated.
Termination will be eﬀective as to any new or outstanding commitments as of the eﬀective date of the
termination.
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Pair-oﬀs
Fannie Mae automatically pairs oﬀ the entire remaining commitment balance for any expired, unfulﬁlled
mandatory commitment that has been previously extended, although Fannie Mae will ﬁrst process any
mortgage deliveries pending in its purchase pipeline.
Additional Resources
See C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees, for information on
the fees associated with a lender-requested pair-oﬀ,
calculating cash back amounts, and
the fees associated with an automatic pair-oﬀ.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-1.1-05, Servicing Fees (05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic describes how Fannie Mae compensates lenders for servicing loans on its behalf, including:
Determining and Obtaining a Servicing Fee
Published June 3, 2026
952
Determining and Obtaining a Servicing Fee
A lender’s servicing compensation when obtaining mandatory commitments is described in its applicable
servicing contract. Lenders must also specify a maximum allowable servicing fee, which may diﬀer, depending
on the mortgage product. For example, the maximum servicing fee for all ﬁxed-rate loans is 50 basis points
(.50%).
Unless otherwise provided in the related servicing contract, every month, lenders deduct their servicing fee
from the borrower’s interest payment before remitting the remainder to Fannie Mae. Lenders will receive a
servicing fee from Fannie Mae only for the period during which it serviced the loan on Fannie Mae’s behalf.
For additional information regarding minimum and maximum servicing fees, refer to Servicing Guide F-2-09,
Servicing Fees for Portfolio Mortgage Loans.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-1.1-06, Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing
Mortgages (06/28/2011)
Introduction
This topic describes the policies for accrued interest payments for regularly amortizing mortgages, including:
Overview
Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Overview
The amount of servicing fee Fannie Mae will pay lenders for servicing regularly amortizing mortgages delivered
via a mandatory commitment depends on the remittance option the lender has selected. (See C1-3-01, General
Information on Remittance Types, for descriptions of the remittance types.)