SECTION: C2-1.1-07
TITLE: Standard ARM and Converted ARM Resale Commitments
EFFECTIVE: 05/30/2017
PAGES: 971-973
---
Published June 3, 2026
953
Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
For A/A remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the last paid installment date for the
mortgage up to, but not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the unpaid principal
balance of the mortgage at the time it is submitted for purchase and the designated pass-through rate of the
mortgage (which is the lesser of the net note rate and Fannie Mae’s required yield for mortgages delivered
under whole loan commitments that specify the standard pricing option). If interest is prepaid, Fannie Mae
deducts accrued interest from the purchase proceeds.
For S/S remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the ﬁrst day of the purchase month up to, but
not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the scheduled unpaid principal balance
for the mortgage as of the purchase date and the designated pass-through rate of the mortgage.
For S/A remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the ﬁrst day of the purchase month up to, but
not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the unpaid principal balance for the
mortgage at the time it is submitted for purchase and the designated pass-through rate of the mortgage (which
is the lesser of the net note rate and Fannie Mae’s required yield for mortgages delivered under cash
commitments that specify the standard pricing option).
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-1.1-07, Standard ARM and Converted ARM Resale Commitments
(05/30/2017)
Introduction
This topic provides information about whole loan mandatory commitments to deliver ARM loans to Fannie Mae,
including:
Standard ARM Mandatory Commitments
Minimum Commitment Amount for Converted ARM Resale Commitments
Process for Converting an ARM within an MBS to a Fixed-Rate Mortgage
Commitment Timing, Pricing and Compensatory Fees for Converted ARM Resale Commitments
Standard ARM Mandatory Commitments
Lenders may take down mandatory whole loan commitments to deliver a variety of ARMs to Fannie Mae. Fannie
Mae will purchase ARMs with varying initial ﬁxed rate periods and indexes.
See the Standard ARM Plan Matrix for parameters for ARM loans eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, including the
initial ﬁxed interest rate period, interest rate adjustment frequency, indexes, and cap structure. Fannie Mae’s
Published June 3, 2026
954
standard ARM program does not permit the purchase of ARMs with caps (“ﬂoors”) (other than the ARM’s
margin) on the lifetime decreases to the life of the loan. The margin for each ARM delivered must include the
same servicing fee speciﬁed in the commitment.
For additional information, see the Standard ARM Plan Matrix.
Minimum Commitment Amount for Converted ARM Resale Commitments
Converted ARM Resale mandatory commitments are used by lenders to redeliver ARMs that were originally in an
MBS pool and have been converted to ﬁxed-rate whole loans.
Lenders must agree to deliver an amount (total UPB) equal to the outstanding balance of the mortgage to be
delivered under the commitment. If the lender is delivering multiple mortgages with the same interest rate after
conversion, the amount must equal the combined UPB of those mortgages.
Process for Converting an ARM within an MBS to a Fixed-Rate Mortgage
ARM loans with a conversion option are eligible for conversion to ﬁxed-rate mortgages. When a borrower
chooses to convert an ARM currently in an MBS pool, the lender must follow these steps.
Step Process for Converting the Mortgage
1. Contact Fannie Mae to repurchase the mortgage from the MBS pool before interest begins
accruing at the new ﬁxed rate.
2. Redeliver the mortgage to Fannie Mae as a whole loan (A/A remittance only), if the lender
speciﬁed a take-out post-conversion disposition option when it originally delivered the ARM.
3. Continue any recourse or credit enhancement that initially applied to the mortgage unless the
lender and Fannie Mae agree otherwise.
4.
Obtain a Converted ARM Resale commitment number from Fannie Mae.
Note: Only mortgages originally delivered with the take-out post-conversion disposition option
may be delivered under this commitment.
For additional information concerning the redelivery of ARMs under both the take-out and market rate options,
see C3-5-04, Pooling ARMs with a Conversion Option.
Commitment Timing, Pricing and Compensatory Fees for Converted ARM Resale
Commitments
See the table below for information on the relationship between the timing of the commitment and the pricing
Published June 3, 2026
955
and fees Fannie Mae may charge.
Date Of Commitment Request Price
On or before the 16th day of the
month in which the conversion
rate is requested.
Par.
After the 16th day of the month in
which the conversion rate is
requested.
Fannie Mae may discount the price the lender receives by
• $250 or
• the applicable discount created by the market movement
between the ﬁrst business day of the month in which the
commitment was supposed to be requested and the date on which
the commitment actually is obtained. As a result, Fannie Mae either
bills lenders for the compensatory discount or reduces the lender’s
purchase proceeds by the applicable amount.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Section C2-1.2, Best Eﬀorts Commitments to Sell Whole Loans
C2-1.2-01, Best Eﬀorts Commitment Process (08/06/2025)
Introduction
This topic describes basic information about obtaining a best eﬀorts commitment.
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Process
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Process
To obtain a best eﬀorts commitment, lenders may use Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application, a free
Web-based application available to subscribers, or may contact the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
Lenders can obtain information on subscribing to the whole loan committing application by contacting their
Fannie Mae customer account team or the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, or by referring to Fannie
Mae’s website.