SECTION: C2-1.2-02
TITLE: Best Efforts Commitment Pricing, Periods, and Fees
EFFECTIVE: 03/03/2021
PAGES: 974-975
---
Published June 3, 2026
956
Fannie Mae conﬁrms its acceptance of the lender’s request for a best eﬀorts delivery commitment by providing
a conﬁrmation to the lender that the loan has been committed.
Additional information may also be obtained by reviewing Pricing & Execution on Fannie Mae’s website.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-06 August 06, 2025
C2-1.2-02, Best Eﬀorts Commitment Pricing, Periods, and Fees
(03/03/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information on best eﬀorts commitments, including:
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Pricing
Best Eﬀorts Pair-oﬀ Fees and Duplicate Commitment Price Adjustments
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Periods and Extension Fees
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Pricing
As is the case with mandatory whole loan commitments, Fannie Mae oﬀers lenders a “live” price in Fannie Mae’s
whole loan committing application as its purchase price for loans delivered via best eﬀorts commitments. Live
prices move throughout the day, generally in tandem with the MBS market. Fannie Mae may charge fees or
make pricing adjustments in conjunction with a best eﬀorts commitment. See also C1-1-01, Execution Options.
Best Eﬀorts Pair-oﬀ Fees and Duplicate Commitment Price Adjustments
Under the best eﬀorts commitment option, generally a pair-oﬀ fee will not be assessed for commitments that
fallout due to:
cancellation of an applicant's rate lock, as long as the cancellation results from an applicant withdrawal or
lender declination; or
a change to the product type or key data which results in a change of the committed loan from a loan
eligible for a best eﬀorts commitment to a loan ineligible for a best eﬀorts commitment.
A pair-oﬀ fee will be assessed for commitments where the fallout event is due to a failure, for any reason, to
Published June 3, 2026
957
deliver the closed and committed loan to Fannie Mae, including when a lender (or a third-party originator who
originates in the lender's name) has solicited new pricing and committed or sold the loan to Fannie Mae or
another investor.
Fannie Mae may cancel a commitment and charge a pair-oﬀ fee in the event the property address is missing or
ﬁctitious or in the event the identical property address is used to enter into multiple commitments.
A duplicate commitment price adjustment will be assessed in the event a lender delivers a loan to Fannie Mae
against any other (duplicate) commitment(s) for the same borrower and property address committed prior to or
within 30 days of the original commitment's fallout or expiration date (the earlier of the two).
Best Eﬀorts Commitment Periods and Extension Fees
As is the case with mandatory commitments, best eﬀorts commitment periods may be as short as one day and
as long as 90 days. Lenders may extend commitments on or before the original commitment expiration date for
up to a maximum of 30 days for a fee. Lenders may request multiple extensions as long as the total extension
period is not longer than 30 days. A best eﬀorts commitment with a “Closed” loan status will automatically
extend for ﬁve calendar days until the loan is purchased or the commitment has been extended for a maximum
of 60 calendar days from the original expiration date. After a commitment has reached its maximum allowed
auto-extension period, the whole loan committing application will automatically pair oﬀ the “Closed” status
commitment.
Fannie Mae will notify lenders via the whole loan committing application of fees associated with extending the
commitment period. Once notice is given, payment of the fee becomes an absolute obligation.
Note: All committing fees and post purchase price adjustments will be drafted from the lender’s draft
account with Fannie Mae. All draft fees can be viewed on Fannie Mae’s website.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to the Announcements that have been issued that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-02 March 03, 2021
 
C2-1.2-03, Best Eﬀorts Commitment Terms, Amounts, and Other
Requirements (03/03/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information on terms and other requirements associated with best eﬀorts commitments,