SECTION: C2-1.1-04
TITLE: Mandatory Commitment Extensions and Pair-Offs
EFFECTIVE: 05/30/2017
PAGES: 967-969
---
Published June 3, 2026
949
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
C2-1.1-04, Mandatory Commitment Extensions and Pair-Oﬀs
(05/30/2017)
Introduction
This topic provides details on lender-requested and automatically-generated extensions and pair-oﬀs, including:
Overview
Lender-Requested Commitment Extensions
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Commitment Extensions
Lender-Requested Pair-oﬀs
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Pair-oﬀs
Additional Resources
Overview
Under certain circumstances, lenders may extend or pair oﬀ a mandatory whole loan commitment. In addition,
in certain circumstances, Fannie Mae will automatically extend commitment periods and pair oﬀ commitment
balances. For information on the fees associated with these activities, see C2-1.1-02, General Information about
Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees.
Lender-Requested Commitment Extensions
Lenders may extend commitments on or before the original commitment expiration date for up to a maximum
of 30 days from that date. They may request multiple extensions as long as the total extension period is no
longer than 30 days. Each request must be made before the contract expiration date in eﬀect following the
previous extension. See C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees, for
information on the fees associated with a lender-requested extension.
Lenders may extend the entire outstanding commitment balance or a portion of it, if the lender also requests a
partial pair-oﬀ of the remaining balance. The sum of the extended amount and the paired-oﬀ amount must
equal the total remaining commitment amount.
Published June 3, 2026
950
Lenders may request extensions in Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application or through the Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk between 8:15 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on any business day (see
E-1-02, List of Contacts). All telephone conversations are voice-recorded. Lenders should maintain detailed
records of the contract extensions requested.
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Commitment Extensions
If a lender fails to meet Fannie Mae’s good delivery requirement within the original commitment period and has
not previously extended the commitment, Fannie Mae will automatically extend it. Commitments expiring with
outstanding unpaid principal balances will be automatically extended a minimum of ﬁve calendar days and
assessed the appropriate extension fee. See C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment
Pricing and Fees, for information on the fees associated with an automatic extension.
If no deliveries have been made by the expiration of the ﬁve-day extension, Fannie Mae will eﬀect an automatic
pair-oﬀ and the appropriate fee assessed and drafted from the lender’s designated account.
Lender-Requested Pair-oﬀs
A lender may purchase (pair oﬀ) all or part of a mandatory delivery commitment in the whole loan committing
application or by contacting the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk between 8:15 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Eastern time), if it is unable to satisfy Fannie Mae’s minimum delivery requirement. The request can be made
at any time between the date on which the commitment was executed and the date on which it expires. The
lender can obtain a new quotation later, but before the commitment expiration date, to avoid an automatic
extension and the possible assessment of an automatic pair-oﬀ fee.
After Fannie Mae veriﬁes the information required for calculating a pair-oﬀ fee, it will provide the lender with a
fee quotation through either the whole loan committing application or through the Capital Markets Pricing and
Sales Desk. The quotation may be for a pair-oﬀ fee to be paid by the lender or, if the transaction is eligible for a
cash back pair-oﬀ, it may be for an amount due to the lender by Fannie Mae. The lender must accept the
quotation within a short time frame if it wants to exercise the pair-oﬀ. Conﬁrmation of the pair-oﬀ can be
obtained in the whole loan committing application.
In conjunction with a lender-requested pair-oﬀ, if the whole loan price at commitment is greater than the price
at the time of the pair-oﬀ solely as a result of market ﬂuctuations (and not from any other cause, including
product-related pricing changes implemented by Fannie Mae), then Fannie Mae will not charge a lender a pair-
oﬀ fee but will provide cash back to the lender (known as a cash back pair-oﬀ). The lender is not eligible for a
cash back pair-oﬀ on a commitment if
the commitment gets paired oﬀ through the automatic pair-oﬀ process, and
the mortgage products delivered under the commitment are deemed by Fannie Mae, in its sole
discretion, to be ineligible per the Selling Guide.
Additionally, negotiated transactions with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk and commitments that
exceed the daily volume limit may not be eligible for cash back pair-oﬀs.
Though lenders are generally eligible to receive cash back on pair-oﬀs upon approval to transact business in the
whole loan committing application, Fannie Mae may decline to activate a lender for cash back pair-oﬀs if, in
Published June 3, 2026
951
Fannie Mae’s sole discretion, the lender’s anticipated business strategy does not align with Fannie Mae’s use of
the cash back pair-oﬀ process.
Additionally, if any of the following events occur, Fannie Mae may immediately terminate a lender’s eligibility for
cash back pair-oﬀs:
Fannie Mae, in its sole discretion, determines that the lender is obtaining commitments without the intent
to deliver;
there is any suspension of the lender’s selling privileges under the Master Selling and Servicing Contract
(MSSC); or
the lender’s MSSC is terminated.
Termination will be eﬀective as to any new or outstanding commitments as of the eﬀective date of the
termination.
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Pair-oﬀs
Fannie Mae automatically pairs oﬀ the entire remaining commitment balance for any expired, unfulﬁlled
mandatory commitment that has been previously extended, although Fannie Mae will ﬁrst process any
mortgage deliveries pending in its purchase pipeline.
Additional Resources
See C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees, for information on
the fees associated with a lender-requested pair-oﬀ,
calculating cash back amounts, and
the fees associated with an automatic pair-oﬀ.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-1.1-05, Servicing Fees (05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic describes how Fannie Mae compensates lenders for servicing loans on its behalf, including:
Determining and Obtaining a Servicing Fee