SECTION: C2-1.1-01
TITLE: Mandatory Commitment Process
EFFECTIVE: 10/30/2009
PAGES: 961-961
---
Published June 3, 2026
943
The ﬁrst section in this chapter provides the details associated with obtaining and fulﬁlling mandatory
commitments to sell whole loans; the second section addresses best eﬀorts commitments; and the third section
describes the use of Servicing Marketplace in selling whole loans to Fannie Mae.
Section C2-1.1, Mandatory Commitments to Sell Whole Loans
C2-1.1-01, Mandatory Commitment Process (10/30/2009)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the process lenders use to obtain a mandatory commitment to sell whole
loans to Fannie Mae.
Mandatory Commitment Process
Mandatory Commitment Process
To obtain a mandatory commitment to sell whole loans to Fannie Mae, lenders may use Fannie Mae’s whole loan
committing application, a free Web-based application available to subscribers, or may contact the Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts). Lenders can obtain information on subscribing to
the whole loan committing application by contacting their Fannie Mae customer account team or the Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, or by referring to Fannie Mae’s website.
Lenders can obtain commitments on any weekday, with the exception of bond market observed holidays as
deﬁned by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA).
Fannie Mae conﬁrms its acceptance of the lender’s request for a mandatory commitment by electronically
transmitting a commitment conﬁrmation to the lender. If Fannie Mae is unable to process the electronic
transmission, lenders are notiﬁed promptly. Should a lender have a problem receiving a commitment
conﬁrmation, it should immediately contact the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
If the lender has obtained the commitment by contacting the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, the legally
binding terms of the commitment are captured in a recorded telephone conversation between the lender and
the Desk.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.