SECTION: C2-1.1-03
TITLE: Mandatory Commitment Terms, Amounts, Periods and Other Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 07/05/2023
PAGES: 964-967
---
Published June 3, 2026
946
Pricing, Periods, and Fees, and C2-1.1-04, Mandatory Commitment Extensions and Pair-Oﬀs.
For information on overdeliveries, see  C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans.
For information on compensatory fees associated with the delivery of ARMs in fulﬁllment of a Converted
ARM Resale Commitment, see  C2-1.1-07, Standard ARM and Converted ARM Resale Commitments.
For information on LLPAs, see the Loan-Level Price Adjustment (LLPA) Matrix .
 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Dates
Announcement SEL-2023-05 June 07, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-08 October 02, 2019
 
C2-1.1-03, Mandatory Commitment Terms, Amounts, Periods and
Other Requirements (07/05/2023)
Introduction
This topic identiﬁes the requirements for loans delivered against a whole loan commitment, including:
Required Common Loan Attributes
Commitment Amounts
Commitment Periods
Borrower Payment Status Requirements
Assignments, Sales and Transfers of Whole Loans
Negotiated Commitments
Required Common Loan Attributes
All loans delivered against a whole loan commitment must share certain common attributes. These include:
Published June 3, 2026
947
Product type — See Mortgage Products for information about products eligible for sale to Fannie Mae.
Mortgage type — Conventional or government
Lien type — First mortgages
Amortization type — Fixed-rate or adjustable-rate
Mortgage term — 10-, 15-, 20-, or 30-year. Lenders may commit to deliver loans with nonstandard
amortization terms or loans that exceed the maximum number of months for a given term by selecting
the next highest amortization schedule available in Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application,
regardless of pricing option.
ARM plan number, if applicable
Remittance type
Commitment Amounts
Lenders may enter into multiple commitments but may not exceed $200 million in aggregate commitment
volume per day. Lenders seeking permission to exceed this amount must contact the Capital Markets Pricing
and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts). Lenders exceeding the limit without Fannie Mae approval may be
required to pair oﬀ their commitment(s) at the lender's expense.
There is no minimum commitment amount for mandatory whole loan commitments. Note that commitments are
issued in multiples of $1.
Commitment Periods
Commitments to deliver most loan products can be taken for 1 to 90 days. Lenders should be sure to choose a
commitment period that allows suﬃcient time after loan closing for the fulﬁllment of the lender’s shipping and
delivery requirements. (See C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans, and C2-2-02,
Documentation Requirements for Whole Loan Deliveries, for details.)
Commitments are based on calendar days but must expire on a business day. Lenders can track the status of
their commitments in Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application.
Borrower Payment Status Requirements
The table below provides the requirements for payment status for loans delivered to Fannie Mae.
Transaction Type Payment Status
12 or fewer months old at the time of delivery The borrower must not have had any 30-day
delinquencies since the loan was originated.
Published June 3, 2026
948
Transaction Type Payment Status
More than one year old at the time of delivery
The borrower must not have any 30-day
delinquencies in the 12-month period that precedes
the lender’s delivery of the loan to Fannie Mae.
Assumed
The payment status requirement applies to the
current borrower. However, for a seasoned loan, if the
current borrower has owned the property less than 12
months, the time period is reduced to the number of
months that they have owned the property.
Assignments, Sales and Transfers of Whole Loans
By submitting a whole loan to Fannie Mae as a whole loan delivery, the lender represents, warrants, and agrees
that all right, title, and interest in the mortgage is sold, transferred, set over, and otherwise conveyed by the
lender to Fannie Mae as of the date of Fannie Mae’s funding of the purchase proceeds.
A lender may deliver a loan that has been originated by another lender. However, the selling lender must make
all of the warranties speciﬁed in Fannie Mae’s Contract as if it were the originator. In such cases, the selling
lender must be aware of all matters related to the loan that were known to the originating lender.
The lender may not assign Fannie Mae’s whole loan commitments except to obtain construction ﬁnancing or
interim ﬁnancing under a “warehouse” line of credit. If the construction or warehouse lender intends to use the
commitment or contract to deliver mortgages to Fannie Mae on its own behalf, it must be an approved Fannie
Mae lender. It also must notify the lender’s Fannie Mae customer account team of the assignment before it
delivers a loan to Fannie Mae.
Negotiated Commitments
Lenders that want to sell loans to Fannie Mae that contain unique eligibility and underwriting considerations not
permissible for delivery via a standard commitment may request a negotiated commitment.
A variance between Fannie Mae and the lender is required when the lender is delivering whole loans via a
negotiated commitment. Lenders should contact their Fannie Mae customer account team for details.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-06 July 05, 2023
Published June 3, 2026
949
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2020-04 August 05, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
C2-1.1-04, Mandatory Commitment Extensions and Pair-Oﬀs
(05/30/2017)
Introduction
This topic provides details on lender-requested and automatically-generated extensions and pair-oﬀs, including:
Overview
Lender-Requested Commitment Extensions
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Commitment Extensions
Lender-Requested Pair-oﬀs
Fannie Mae-Implemented (Automatic) Pair-oﬀs
Additional Resources
Overview
Under certain circumstances, lenders may extend or pair oﬀ a mandatory whole loan commitment. In addition,
in certain circumstances, Fannie Mae will automatically extend commitment periods and pair oﬀ commitment
balances. For information on the fees associated with these activities, see C2-1.1-02, General Information about
Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees.
Lender-Requested Commitment Extensions
Lenders may extend commitments on or before the original commitment expiration date for up to a maximum
of 30 days from that date. They may request multiple extensions as long as the total extension period is no
longer than 30 days. Each request must be made before the contract expiration date in eﬀect following the
previous extension. See C2-1.1-02, General Information about Mandatory Commitment Pricing and Fees, for
information on the fees associated with a lender-requested extension.
Lenders may extend the entire outstanding commitment balance or a portion of it, if the lender also requests a
partial pair-oﬀ of the remaining balance. The sum of the extended amount and the paired-oﬀ amount must
equal the total remaining commitment amount.