SECTION: C2-1.1-06
TITLE: Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
EFFECTIVE: 06/28/2011
PAGES: 970-971
---
Published June 3, 2026
952
Determining and Obtaining a Servicing Fee
A lender’s servicing compensation when obtaining mandatory commitments is described in its applicable
servicing contract. Lenders must also specify a maximum allowable servicing fee, which may diﬀer, depending
on the mortgage product. For example, the maximum servicing fee for all ﬁxed-rate loans is 50 basis points
(.50%).
Unless otherwise provided in the related servicing contract, every month, lenders deduct their servicing fee
from the borrower’s interest payment before remitting the remainder to Fannie Mae. Lenders will receive a
servicing fee from Fannie Mae only for the period during which it serviced the loan on Fannie Mae’s behalf.
For additional information regarding minimum and maximum servicing fees, refer to Servicing Guide F-2-09,
Servicing Fees for Portfolio Mortgage Loans.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-1.1-06, Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing
Mortgages (06/28/2011)
Introduction
This topic describes the policies for accrued interest payments for regularly amortizing mortgages, including:
Overview
Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Overview
The amount of servicing fee Fannie Mae will pay lenders for servicing regularly amortizing mortgages delivered
via a mandatory commitment depends on the remittance option the lender has selected. (See C1-3-01, General
Information on Remittance Types, for descriptions of the remittance types.)
Published June 3, 2026
953
Accrued Interest Payments for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
For A/A remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the last paid installment date for the
mortgage up to, but not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the unpaid principal
balance of the mortgage at the time it is submitted for purchase and the designated pass-through rate of the
mortgage (which is the lesser of the net note rate and Fannie Mae’s required yield for mortgages delivered
under whole loan commitments that specify the standard pricing option). If interest is prepaid, Fannie Mae
deducts accrued interest from the purchase proceeds.
For S/S remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the ﬁrst day of the purchase month up to, but
not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the scheduled unpaid principal balance
for the mortgage as of the purchase date and the designated pass-through rate of the mortgage.
For S/A remittances, Fannie Mae purchases accrued interest from the ﬁrst day of the purchase month up to, but
not including, the purchase date. This interest adjustment is based on the unpaid principal balance for the
mortgage at the time it is submitted for purchase and the designated pass-through rate of the mortgage (which
is the lesser of the net note rate and Fannie Mae’s required yield for mortgages delivered under cash
commitments that specify the standard pricing option).
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-1.1-07, Standard ARM and Converted ARM Resale Commitments
(05/30/2017)
Introduction
This topic provides information about whole loan mandatory commitments to deliver ARM loans to Fannie Mae,
including:
Standard ARM Mandatory Commitments
Minimum Commitment Amount for Converted ARM Resale Commitments
Process for Converting an ARM within an MBS to a Fixed-Rate Mortgage
Commitment Timing, Pricing and Compensatory Fees for Converted ARM Resale Commitments
Standard ARM Mandatory Commitments
Lenders may take down mandatory whole loan commitments to deliver a variety of ARMs to Fannie Mae. Fannie
Mae will purchase ARMs with varying initial ﬁxed rate periods and indexes.
See the Standard ARM Plan Matrix for parameters for ARM loans eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, including the
initial ﬁxed interest rate period, interest rate adjustment frequency, indexes, and cap structure. Fannie Mae’s