SECTION: C2-2-05
TITLE: Whole Loan Purchasing Process
EFFECTIVE: 10/04/2023
PAGES: 987-989
---
Published June 3, 2026
969
Early Funding Options
Fannie Mae oﬀers approved lenders the ability to receive funding at earlier points in the process. For
information on Fannie Mae’s Early Funding Options and Loan Delivery, the application lenders use to submit
requests for early funding, see Fannie Mae’s website or contact the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see 
E-1-02, List of Contacts).
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-2-05, Whole Loan Purchasing Process (10/04/2023)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the process Fannie Mae uses to notify the lender (and the servicer, if the
lender is not servicing the loan) of a whole loan purchase, including:
Notiﬁcation to Lender of Purchases of Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Contents of the Purchase Advice
Reconciliation of Purchase Advices and After Sale Corrections to Whole Loan Disbursements
Submission of Mortgage Record Change to HUD for FHA Mortgage Purchases
Notiﬁcation to Lender of Purchases of Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Lenders can access the following documents in Fannie Mae Connect:
a seller’s Purchase Advice to detail Fannie Mae’s disbursement of the purchase proceeds, and
a report to summarize the lender’s purchases for each whole loan commitment.
Servicers can obtain a Purchase Advice to provide the information necessary for its accounting records for the
mortgages that it is servicing on behalf of a lender.
Published June 3, 2026
970
Contents of the Purchase Advice
The Purchase Advice will contain the following information:
each loan, identiﬁed by a Fannie Mae loan number (which the servicer should enter into its records
immediately because it must be used in reporting all subsequent activity related to the mortgage to
Fannie Mae);
details about the loan purchase, including loan information, price adjustments, and purchase proceeds;
and
a report with the applicable payee code for each wire transfer request.
The Purchase Advice will be available on the business day Fannie Mae funds the purchase proceeds.
Reconciliation of Purchase Advices and After Sale Corrections to Whole Loan
Disbursements
The lender should examine each Purchase Advice it receives and reconcile the advice to its books and records
to ensure that any transfer of funds is properly credited to the lender’s designated bank.
Fannie Mae expects lenders to have appropriate controls and procedures in place to perform timely and
accurate reconciliations of the transfers of funds for all whole loan deliveries.
The lender must submit a post-purchase adjustment request to provide notice of any error, omission, or
irregularity in the transfer of funds or in processing the request for the repetitive transfer within 30 days of the
date of the Purchase Advice. Otherwise, Fannie Mae will assume that the information on its Purchase Advice is
correct.
If the lender believes the amount disbursed is incorrect, it can request an adjustment by following the
instructions provided in Seller/Servicer-Initiated Post-Purchase Adjustments.
The request must include the following:
the lender’s nine-digit Fannie Mae seller/servicer number,
the ten-digit Fannie Mae loan number,
the Post-Purchase Adjustment Request form, and
applicable documentation.
See Seller/Servicer-Initiated Post-Purchase Adjustments in C1-2-02, Loan Data and Documentation Delivery
Requirements for additional information.
 
Submission of Mortgage Record Change to HUD for FHA Mortgage Purchases
Published June 3, 2026
971
After the lender receives notiﬁcation that Fannie Mae has purchased a regularly amortizing FHA loan for its
portfolio, the lender must complete a Mortgage Record Change (HUD Form 92080) and submit it to HUD through
FHA Connection.
For notiﬁcations to FHA, lenders will also need to include Fannie Mae’s Mortgagee Number 950010999 on the
form. Only the ﬁrst ﬁve digits of this number are required if submitting the HUD form through FHA Connection.
Note: Fannie Mae is not currently purchasing FHA loans.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-01 February 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C2-2-06, Authorization to Transfer Funds (05/01/2024)
Introduction
This topic explains how a lender authorizes Fannie Mae to transfer funds for whole loan deliveries into its
designated accounts, including:
Documentation Requirements
Lender’s Agreement Related to the Execution of the Authorization to Transfer Funds
Authorization for Repetitive Transfers
Changes to or Deletion of the Authority to Transfer Funds
Documentation Requirements
Fannie Mae will not transfer purchase proceeds for whole loan deliveries to a lender’s designated bank account
until the lender has provided Fannie Mae with an executed Certiﬁcate of Authority, Incumbency, and Specimen
Signatures ( Form 360) that designates the person or persons authorized to establish, change, or delete wire