SECTION: C2-2-01
TITLE: General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans
EFFECTIVE: 08/07/2018
PAGES: 980-982
---
Published June 3, 2026
962
C2-2-01, General Requirements for Good Delivery of Whole Loans
(08/07/2018)
Introduction
This topic provides Fannie Mae’s requirements for good delivery of whole loans, including:
Deﬁnition of Whole Loan Good Delivery
Amortization Schedule Requirements for Whole Loans
Limitations on High-Balance Whole Loan Deliveries
Whole Loan Good Delivery Amounts
Overdeliveries of Whole Loan Commitments
Extending and Pairing-Out of Whole Loan Commitments
Deﬁnition of Whole Loan Good Delivery
To receive funding for loans delivered in fulﬁllment of a mandatory, best eﬀorts, or converted ARM resale
commitment, lenders must make “good delivery,” meaning the loans delivered must meet all of Fannie Mae’s
underwriting and legal criteria and satisfy the terms of the original commitment.
Fannie Mae’s good delivery requirements are not met unless:
the applicable error-free mortgage documents and data reach the Fannie Mae-approved document
custodian no later than the ﬁrst morning delivery, the day prior to the expiration date of the
commitment;
the data reﬂected on the Loan Schedules pass all of the Fannie Mae purchasing edits;
the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all mortgages delivered under the commitment at least equals
Fannie Mae’s minimum required delivery amount (but does not exceed the maximum delivery amount on
the expiration day of the commitment); and
the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all mortgages delivered under the commitment does not
exceed Fannie Mae's delivery limits for loans with nonstandard characteristics, such as high-balance
loans.
To make good delivery on a best eﬀorts commitment, the information concerning the loan that is delivered must
match the key data elements speciﬁed in Fannie Mae’s whole loan committing application.
Amortization Schedule Requirements for Whole Loans
For whole loans delivered to Fannie Mae, the ﬁrst payment date must be no later than two months from the ﬁnal
disbursement date of the loan proceeds. In the case of a single-close construction-to-permanent loan, the two
month period begins at the time of the conversion to permanent ﬁnancing.
The following table provides an example of this requirement.
Published June 3, 2026
963
If the ﬁnal disbursement date occurs in... Then the ﬁrst payment date must be no later
than...
January March
February April
November January
Limitations on High-Balance Whole Loan Deliveries
The following outlines key whole loan requirements:
In the whole loan committing application, high-balance 10-, 15-, 20-, and 30-year fully amortizing ﬁxed-
rate mortgage loans are eligible for delivery under standard whole loan mandatory commitments, as long
as the high-balance loans do not comprise more than 10% of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of
the commitment. If the delivery of a high-balance mortgage loan causes the lender to exceed the 10%
limitation, the lender is required to deliver the mortgage loan against a high-balance whole loan
commitment. High-balance products are available in the whole loan committing application for this
purpose.
Note: 10–year fully amortizing ﬁxed-rate high-balance mortgage loans are delivered under a
15–year high-balance commitment and 20–year fully amortizing ﬁxed-rate high-balance
mortgage loans are delivered under a 30–year high-balance commitment.
The 10% limitation does not apply in the whole loan committing application to high-balance mortgage
loans originated with non-TBA-eligible products (for example, ARMs) which may be delivered against
standard conforming whole loan commitments, with no restriction on concentration.
For best eﬀorts commitments in the whole loan committing application, 15–year and 30–year fully
amortizing ﬁxed-rate high-balance mortgage loans must be delivered under 15–year or 30–year high-
balance commitments, respectively. High-balance mortgage loans with 10– or 20–year ﬁxed-rate terms or
non-TBA-eligible products (such as ARMs) are not accommodated for best eﬀorts commitments.
See B5-1-01, High-Balance Mortgage Loan Eligibility and Underwriting and B5-1-02, High-Balance Pricing,
Mortgage Insurance, Special Feature Codes, and Delivery Limitations for additional information about high-
balance mortgage loans.
Whole Loan Good Delivery Amounts
To make good delivery on a mandatory commitment, lenders must deliver loans for which the total UPB does
not fall below the greater of $10,000 or 2.5% of the original commitment amount.
The minimum required delivery amount is an amount that will not fall below the original commitment amount by
more than the greater of $10,000 or 2.5% of the original commitment amount, unless a lender requests a partial
pair-oﬀ of a commitment. If that occurs, the minimum required delivery amount will be reduced to $50 below
Published June 3, 2026
964
the revised commitment amount.
The maximum delivery amount is an amount that will not exceed the original commitment amount by more
than the greater of $10,000 or 2.5% of the original commitment amount, unless a lender requests an
overdelivery. If a lender requests an overdelivery, the maximum required delivery amount will be $50 above the
revised commitment amount.
Overdeliveries of Whole Loan Commitments
Lenders may request permission via the whole loan committing application for mandatory commitments or by
contacting the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts) during regular business
hours to over deliver, or deliver a total UPB that exceeds the maximum delivery amount.
The maximum overdelivery amount is 25% of the original commitment amount. For example, on an original
commitment amount of $150,000, the maximum overdelivery amount is an additional $37,500 (25% of
$150,000). In this example, the total delivered against the commitment cannot exceed $187,550 ($150,000 +
$37,500 + $50).
After an overdelivery occurs, the maximum delivery tolerance level decreases to $50 above the new
commitment amount. For commitments for which the overdelivery calculation (based on 25% of the original
commitment amount) is less than $10,000, the high tolerance level becomes the maximum amount the lender
can deliver.
Fannie Mae generally bases its decision on whether an overdelivery price adjustment will be due based on the
movement in market prices between the date the commitment was originally obtained and the date on which
Fannie Mae approved the overdelivery. If a price adjustment is due, Fannie Mae will draft an overdelivery price
adjustment from the lender’s designated account on the following business day.
Extending and Pairing-Out of Whole Loan Commitments
For information about extending and pairing-out of whole loan commitments, see C2-1.1-04, Mandatory
Commitment Extensions and Pair-Oﬀs.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-2-02, Documentation Requirements for Whole Loan Deliveries
(05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic describes the documentation requirements for whole loan deliveries, including:
Required Documents for Whole Loans