SECTION: C2-2-03
TITLE: General Information on Whole Loan Purchasing Policies
EFFECTIVE: 05/04/2022
PAGES: 984-986
---
Published June 3, 2026
966
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-2-03, General Information on Whole Loan Purchasing Policies
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic includes information on the conditions under which Fannie Mae will fund the purchase of a loan
delivered in fulﬁllment of a whole loan commitment, including:
Whole Loan Funding Requirements
Warehouse Lender’s Release of Interest in the Property
Procedures Related to the Secure Transfer of Funds
Whole Loan Funding Requirements
Fannie Mae will send the proceeds from the whole loan sale via a wire transfer into the lender’s designated
account on the "Purchased and Funded" date (as reﬂected in Loan Delivery) if:
the designated payee code is valid;
the loan is eligible for purchase; and
the document custodian received a complete, accurate mortgage document submission package and
loan delivery data by the applicable cutoﬀ times.
Fannie Mae will direct the wire transfer to either:
the account(s) and depository institution(s) the lender designates, or
the lender itself (if it is able to receive wire transfers through the Fedwire system).
To avoid delays in purchasing and funding, Fannie Mae accepts delivery of any mortgage up to 45 days from the
due date of the reported last paid installment.
Warehouse Lender’s Release of Interest in the Property
Published June 3, 2026
967
When Fannie Mae purchases a mortgage, the mortgage seller represents and warrants that title to the
mortgage note is free and clear of any security interest, lien, pledge, or other encumbrance, which means that
any interest held by a warehouse lender must be released no later than the date Fannie Mae acquires the note.
To ensure that this is always the case, Fannie Mae has established delivery procedures to cover those instances
in which the document custodian either:
receives with the mortgage delivery documents a bailee letter notifying it of a warehouse lender’s
security interest, or
is otherwise aware that a warehouse lender is claiming an interest of any kind in the mortgage notes
being delivered.
This process is intended solely to ensure the correctness of the selling representations and warranties a
mortgage seller makes to Fannie Mae (and not to beneﬁt any third party). These procedures are outlined in
C1-2-06, Bailee Letters. Also see C1-2-03, Ownership of Mortgage Loans Prior to Purchase or Securitization and
Third-Party Security Interests, for additional information.
Fannie Mae also has established operational procedures that can be used to reduce instances of conﬂicting
delivery instructions for pledged mortgages. See C1-1-01, Execution Options.
Procedures Related to the Secure Transfer of Funds
Each lender is responsible for establishing and maintaining controls and procedures that ensure the
conﬁdentiality of all transfer instructions and payee codes and the integrity of its communications with Fannie
Mae.
The lender agrees to be bound by any transfer instructions issued in its name and sent to Fannie Mae, whether
or not they were authorized.
A lender is solely liable for transfers that are initiated (either directly or indirectly) as the result of a breach in its
security arrangements or as the result of its failure to give Fannie Mae timely notice of an error, omission, or
irregularity in establishing payee arrangements. The lender is fully responsible for notifying the Fannie Mae
Asset Acquisitions by telephone and submitting written conﬁrmation of the call to Fannie Mae within 24 hours of
the breach. Fannie Mae will do everything possible to suspend operations until a correction is sent, including
removing all payee codes on record for the lender and issuing new codes based on instructions the lender
provides in accordance with Fannie Mae standard procedures.
The lender is advised that these procedures will not be used to detect an error in the transmission or content of
a transfer of funds to the lender’s designated bank or an error in processing a request to set up a payee code
for use in transferring funds.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
968
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-2-04, Timing of Distribution of Whole Loan Purchase Proceeds
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic describes the timing of Fannie Mae’s funding of loans it purchases, including:
Timing of Distribution of Proceeds for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Impact of Late Submissions of Required Data and Documentation
Early Funding Options
Timing of Distribution of Proceeds for Regularly Amortizing Mortgages
Fannie Mae will fund the purchase proceeds for whole loan deliveries of regularly amortizing mortgages
provided the following procedure has already occurred:
lender has electronically submitted clean, error-free loan delivery data through Loan Delivery by 9:00
p.m. (Eastern time),
the document custodian has received a complete and accurate mortgage document submission package
from a lender by ﬁrst morning delivery the following day, and
the document custodian has certiﬁed the mortgage document submission package.
Following the funding of the purchase proceeds the loan status in Loan Delivery will be "Purchased and Funded."
Impact of Late Submissions of Required Data and Documentation
If the required delivery data and documentation are not received by the applicable cutoﬀ time, Fannie Mae will
disburse the purchase proceeds on the business day following the date it receives these materials, assuming
they are in order and the mortgage is eligible for purchase.