SECTION: C2-2-06
TITLE: Authorization to Transfer Funds
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2024
PAGES: 989-991
---
Published June 3, 2026
971
After the lender receives notiﬁcation that Fannie Mae has purchased a regularly amortizing FHA loan for its
portfolio, the lender must complete a Mortgage Record Change (HUD Form 92080) and submit it to HUD through
FHA Connection.
For notiﬁcations to FHA, lenders will also need to include Fannie Mae’s Mortgagee Number 950010999 on the
form. Only the ﬁrst ﬁve digits of this number are required if submitting the HUD form through FHA Connection.
Note: Fannie Mae is not currently purchasing FHA loans.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-04 May 04, 2022
Announcement SEL-2021-01 February 03, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C2-2-06, Authorization to Transfer Funds (05/01/2024)
Introduction
This topic explains how a lender authorizes Fannie Mae to transfer funds for whole loan deliveries into its
designated accounts, including:
Documentation Requirements
Lender’s Agreement Related to the Execution of the Authorization to Transfer Funds
Authorization for Repetitive Transfers
Changes to or Deletion of the Authority to Transfer Funds
Documentation Requirements
Fannie Mae will not transfer purchase proceeds for whole loan deliveries to a lender’s designated bank account
until the lender has provided Fannie Mae with an executed Certiﬁcate of Authority, Incumbency, and Specimen
Signatures ( Form 360) that designates the person or persons authorized to establish, change, or delete wire
Published June 3, 2026
972
transfer instructions on the lender’s behalf.
Lender’s Agreement Related to the Execution of the Authorization to Transfer
Funds
By executing  Form 360, a lender agrees that
Fannie Mae is authorized to conclusively rely on the accuracy, genuineness, and good faith of any written
communication related to transfer instructions that bears the signature of one of the individuals
designated on Form 360; and
it will be fully responsible for any and all losses incurred by Fannie Mae that result from Fannie Mae’s
reliance on any instruction given to Fannie Mae by the lender’s authorized representatives or any other
person who has (or obtains) access to information or documents that compromise the security of any
Fannie Mae electronic fund transfer systems or processes.
After Fannie Mae receives an executed Form 360 from a lender, Fannie Mae will rely on the information on that
Certiﬁcation until such time as the lender requests to modify or delete it.
Authorization for Repetitive Transfers
A repetitive transfer is one in which all aspects of the transfer, other than the date of the transfer and the
amount of funds transferred, remain constant over time.
A lender that wants the purchase proceeds for the whole loan deliveries that it submits over any period of time
to be wired to the same account(s) and depository institution(s) must have its authorized representative(s)
submit a separate Seller’s Designation of Wire Transfer Instructions ( Form 482) for each arrangement,
specifying any desired transfer routing instructions, any intermediary depository institutions, and appropriate
account numbers for these repetitive transfers. Fannie Mae will
call the authorized representative who signed the Form 482 request to conﬁrm validity prior to
processing.
assign a unique payee code to identify each of the lender’s instructions for repetitive transfers. The
lender must then use this payee code to identify each whole loan delivery for which the purchase
proceeds are to be wired to the designated payee.
rely on the ABA routing number and the account numbers that the lender’s representative speciﬁes on
the Form 482 when it creates a payee code to identify each individual payee arrangement. Fannie Mae
will make no eﬀort to verify the accuracy of the routing number or the account numbers.
Changes to or Deletion of the Authority to Transfer Funds
To add, delete, or change an authorized representative, the lender must submit a new Form 360 and corporate
resolution.
Fannie Mae reserves the right to verify or authenticate any request for a change, but the lender cannot consider
Fannie Mae’s failure to do so an act of negligence.
Published June 3, 2026
973
In emergency situations, Fannie Mae may, in its sole discretion, delete the name of an authorized representative
on the basis of a telephone call and/or an email request from another authorized representative; however, a
revised  Form 360 and a new corporate resolution must then be submitted promptly as conﬁrmation of the
change.
Fannie Mae will make reasonable eﬀorts to act quickly on requests for emergency deletions of the names of
authorized representatives. Fannie Mae cannot guarantee that it will be able to act quickly enough to prevent
the execution of transfers by the individuals being deleted and bears no liability for the execution of any such
transfers.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-03 May 01, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-05 June 07, 2023
 
C2-2-07, Purchase Payee Codes (05/01/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on purchase payee codes, including:
Entering Purchase Payee Codes Into Fannie Mae’s Records
Changing or Deleting Purchase Payee Codes From Fannie Mae’s Records
Entering Purchase Payee Codes Into Fannie Mae’s Records
Lenders must specify a valid and appropriate payee code at delivery to have the purchase proceeds for a
speciﬁc mortgage or group of mortgages transferred to the designated account.
The following steps are required to enter a payee code into Fannie Mae records.