SECTION: C2-2-02
TITLE: Documentation Requirements for Whole Loan Deliveries
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2019
PAGES: 982-984
---
Published June 3, 2026
964
the revised commitment amount.
The maximum delivery amount is an amount that will not exceed the original commitment amount by more
than the greater of $10,000 or 2.5% of the original commitment amount, unless a lender requests an
overdelivery. If a lender requests an overdelivery, the maximum required delivery amount will be $50 above the
revised commitment amount.
Overdeliveries of Whole Loan Commitments
Lenders may request permission via the whole loan committing application for mandatory commitments or by
contacting the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (see E-1-02, List of Contacts) during regular business
hours to over deliver, or deliver a total UPB that exceeds the maximum delivery amount.
The maximum overdelivery amount is 25% of the original commitment amount. For example, on an original
commitment amount of $150,000, the maximum overdelivery amount is an additional $37,500 (25% of
$150,000). In this example, the total delivered against the commitment cannot exceed $187,550 ($150,000 +
$37,500 + $50).
After an overdelivery occurs, the maximum delivery tolerance level decreases to $50 above the new
commitment amount. For commitments for which the overdelivery calculation (based on 25% of the original
commitment amount) is less than $10,000, the high tolerance level becomes the maximum amount the lender
can deliver.
Fannie Mae generally bases its decision on whether an overdelivery price adjustment will be due based on the
movement in market prices between the date the commitment was originally obtained and the date on which
Fannie Mae approved the overdelivery. If a price adjustment is due, Fannie Mae will draft an overdelivery price
adjustment from the lender’s designated account on the following business day.
Extending and Pairing-Out of Whole Loan Commitments
For information about extending and pairing-out of whole loan commitments, see C2-1.1-04, Mandatory
Commitment Extensions and Pair-Oﬀs.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C2-2-02, Documentation Requirements for Whole Loan Deliveries
(05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic describes the documentation requirements for whole loan deliveries, including:
Required Documents for Whole Loans
Published June 3, 2026
965
Submission of Documents for Whole Loans to a Document Custodian
Whole Loan Deliveries to a Document Custodian
Required Documents for Whole Loans
See E-2-01, Required Custodial Documents, for a list of the mortgage documents that must be included in the
document submission package for all loans.
Submission of Documents for Whole Loans to a Document Custodian
Mortgage document submission packages must be submitted to the document custodian via overnight delivery
(with instructions for ﬁrst morning delivery) for the following:
whole loans,
As Soon As Pooled Plus (ASAP Plus), and
As Soon As Pooled (ASAP Sale).
All packages should be sent to the assigned document custodian and addressed according to the instructions
provided by that custodian. The document custodian will certify the loans in accordance with the Master
Custodial Agreement (Form 2017) in eﬀect for Fannie Mae, the lender, and itself.
Whole Loan Deliveries to a Document Custodian
Lenders are required to submit data for whole loan deliveries to Fannie Mae via Fannie Mae’s Loan Delivery
application.
To ensure timely delivery to the document custodian, the seller should ensure the loan document submission
package is submitted to its overnight carrier (with instructions for ﬁrst morning delivery) the same day that the
seller submits the loan data to Fannie Mae for purchase. Loan data delivered by the seller to Fannie Mae will be
certiﬁed the next business day provided the documents have been delivered to the document custodian via ﬁrst
morning delivery, and there are no discrepancies and no unresolved lien issues.
When the document custodian receives the mortgage document submission package, it will review the related
loan documentation to verify that all of the required documents have been received and are in order. The
document custodian will then work with the lender to correct any certiﬁcation data or document errors. Lenders
can opt-in to receive email notices through Loan Delivery when data or document discrepancies are noted
during certiﬁcation. Lenders then have the option to accept or decline data changes the custodian proposes as a
result of the discrepancy on the note and the data they provided. The lender must work with the custodian to
ensure all discrepancies are resolved.
If there are no document or data-related errors, the document custodian will transmit a certiﬁcation to Fannie
Mae.
Recent Related Announcements
Published June 3, 2026
966
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C2-2-03, General Information on Whole Loan Purchasing Policies
(05/04/2022)
Introduction
This topic includes information on the conditions under which Fannie Mae will fund the purchase of a loan
delivered in fulﬁllment of a whole loan commitment, including:
Whole Loan Funding Requirements
Warehouse Lender’s Release of Interest in the Property
Procedures Related to the Secure Transfer of Funds
Whole Loan Funding Requirements
Fannie Mae will send the proceeds from the whole loan sale via a wire transfer into the lender’s designated
account on the "Purchased and Funded" date (as reﬂected in Loan Delivery) if:
the designated payee code is valid;
the loan is eligible for purchase; and
the document custodian received a complete, accurate mortgage document submission package and
loan delivery data by the applicable cutoﬀ times.
Fannie Mae will direct the wire transfer to either:
the account(s) and depository institution(s) the lender designates, or
the lender itself (if it is able to receive wire transfers through the Fedwire system).
To avoid delays in purchasing and funding, Fannie Mae accepts delivery of any mortgage up to 45 days from the
due date of the reported last paid installment.
Warehouse Lender’s Release of Interest in the Property