SECTION: C3-1-02
TITLE: Preparing to Pool Loans into MBS
EFFECTIVE: 05/01/2019
PAGES: 997-998
---
Published June 3, 2026
979
Lenders in good standing may be eligible to use the services of Fannie Mae’s Capital Markets Pricing and Sales
Desk (“the Desk”) to either buy or sell MBS (and whole loans as well). The Desk also assists lenders in obtaining
current market quotes and in ﬁnding markets for nonstandard MBS products. However, the Desk will not make
individualized trade recommendations or determine the appropriateness or beneﬁt of any particular transaction
or strategy for a lender.
Lenders should note that they must consent to the recordation of all telephone conversations with the Desk. In
the event of a conﬂict between a recorded telephone conversation and a conﬁrmation or settlement notice sent
by Fannie Mae to the lender, the recorded conversation represents the oﬃcial terms of the transaction.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-09 October 06, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-1-02, Preparing to Pool Loans into MBS (05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the steps lenders need to take before they can obtain MBS commitments and
pool loans into MBS, including:
Obtaining Approval to Deliver MBS Loans
Selecting a Document Custodian
Obtaining Approval to Deliver MBS Loans
A lender must obtain approval for MBS execution and access to Fannie Mae’s MBS committing application before
it can deliver mortgages into a single-lender MBS pool or a Fannie Majors.
Fannie Mae considers a number of factors prior to oﬀering MBS execution to a lender. These factors include, but
are not limited to, the following:
the expertise of the lender’s management in securitization,
whether the lender’s operational processes support MBS delivery and servicing requirements,
Published June 3, 2026
980
the lender’s ability to manage and maintain a delivery process that ensures the delivery of accurate data
to Fannie Mae,
the lender’s prepayment speeds, and
the lender’s performance against outstanding Fannie Mae obligations.
Fannie Mae does not accept requests for MBS execution from lenders whose selling or servicing privileges have
been suspended or that have not performed satisfactorily under other MBS commitments or contracts.
Selecting a Document Custodian
Lenders must select an eligible document custodian and have an executed Master Custodial Agreement (Form
2017) in place before obtaining an MBS commitment (see A3-3-04, Document Custodians). The document
custodian certiﬁes, takes and retains actual physical possession of the custodial documents for the mortgages.
Also, see the RDC guide for document custodian eligibility criteria, and Fannie Mae's Active Document
Custodians for a complete list of eligible custodians.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Chapter C3-2, MBS Securitization Process
Introduction
This chapter provides information on the MBS securitization process, including loan parameters, transaction
types, guaranty fees, buyups and buydowns, servicing fees, pricing, and funding.
C3-2-01, Determining Eligibility for Loans Pooled into MBS
(09/07/2022)
Introduction
This topic contains information on eligibility requirements for loans pooled into MBS (which includes UMBS),
including: