SECTION: C3-2-03
TITLE: MBS Remittance Type and Selecting a Remittance Cycle
EFFECTIVE: 10/25/2011
PAGES: 1003-1004
---
Published June 3, 2026
985
C3-2-02, Selecting a Servicing Option (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic provides information about the two options lenders must choose from when deciding how they wish to
service loans pooled into MBS. These options include:
Impact of Servicing Option Selection on Guaranty Fees
Regular Servicing Option
Special Servicing Option
Impact of Servicing Option Selection on Guaranty Fees
Guaranty fees are aﬀected by the servicing option chosen by the lender. Generally, the guaranty fee for pooled
loans serviced under the Regular Servicing option is typically lower than for pooled loans serviced under the
Special Servicing option.
Regular Servicing Option
Under the Regular Servicing option (identiﬁed by foreclosure risk code L), the lender assumes the entire risk of
loss from a borrower default while servicing the mortgage and, as a result, is charged a lower guaranty fee. The
lender also agrees to provide for a successor to this agreement if it transfers its responsibilities for servicing the
mortgage to another servicer.
Special Servicing Option
Under the Special Servicing option (identiﬁed by foreclosure risk code F), Fannie Mae assumes the risk of loss
from a borrower default. Fannie Mae reimburses the lender for its share of the lender’s unrecovered advances
for delinquencies and advances related to servicing the mortgages.
See the Servicing Guide for more information about both options.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C3-2-03, MBS Remittance Type and Selecting a Remittance Cycle
Published June 3, 2026
986
(10/25/2011)
Introduction
In this topic, the lender’s options with respect to remitting principal and interest on MBS pool loans are
addressed, including:
MBS Pool Remittance Type
Standard Remittance Cycle
MBS Pool Remittance Type
All MBS mortgages are accounted for as the scheduled/scheduled remittance type. This means that a servicer
may have to advance its own funds to cover the amount Fannie Mae is due on a mortgage for which the
monthly payment of principal and interest is late.
Standard Remittance Cycle
Under the standard remittance cycle, lenders remit scheduled P&I payments on the 18th of the month in which
they are due from the borrowers (or, if the 18th is not a business day, on the business day preceding the 18th).
Unscheduled principal payments must be remitted by the 18th of the month following collection.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C3-2-04, Mandatory MBS Commitments (12/06/2016)
Introduction
This topic contains information on obtaining and fulﬁlling mandatory commitments to sell loans under an MBS
execution, including:
Overview
Mandatory MBS Committing Process
Access to Guaranty Fee Pricing
Negotiated Commitments
MBS Commitment Rolls and Pair-Oﬀs
Overview