SECTION: C3-3-02
TITLE: Accessing Buyup and Buydown Ratios and Calculating Payments or Charges
EFFECTIVE: 12/04/2019
PAGES: 1007-1010
---
Published June 3, 2026
989
“scheduled” balance of each mortgage loan) by the applicable guaranty fee rate for the mortgage loan
expressed in basis points (adjusted for any remittance cycle adjustments, buyup, or buydown, if applicable),
then:
summing the products of all the mortgage loans in the pool,
dividing that sum by the aggregate issue date principal balance for the pool (or, in subsequent months,
by the “scheduled” security balance for the pool), and
rounding the result to the nearest hundredth of a basis point.
The result is the annualized weighted-average guaranty fee factor for a pool.
Determining the Monthly Guaranty Fee Remittance for the Pool
The annualized weighted-average guaranty fee factor is then
multiplied by the aggregate issue date principal balance of the pool (or, in subsequent months, the
“scheduled” security balance for the pool),
divided by 120,000, and
rounded to two decimal places.
The result is monthly guaranty fee remittance for the pool.
Remitting Guaranty Fees to Fannie Mae
On the 7th day of each month (or, if the 7th is a holiday or weekend, on the preceding business day), Fannie
Mae will draft guaranty fee remittances from the custodial bank account the lender designates as its draft
account.
If the guaranty fee remittance is to be drafted from the lender’s P&I custodial account for MBS pools, then the
lender must make sure that it does not withdraw the guaranty fee remittance when it takes its monthly
servicing fee from the account.
For more information about designating bank accounts for drafting purposes and conﬁrming guaranty fee
remittances, see the Servicing Guide.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
990
C3-3-02, Accessing Buyup and Buydown Ratios and Calculating
Payments or Charges (12/04/2019)
Introduction
This topic provides information lenders need in order to buy up or buy down their guaranty fee, including:
General Information on Buyups
General Information on Buydowns
Accessing Buyup and Buydown Ratios
Calculating Buyup Payments and Buydown Charges
Buyup Payment Recapture
General Information on Buyups
Loan level guaranty fee buyups and buydowns allow lenders to pool a wider range of note rates under one MBS
coupon. Lenders can buy up guaranty fees, meaning they agree to remit a guaranty fee higher than the
contractual fee applicable for the particular servicing option and remittance cycle in return for a one-time
payment from Fannie Mae.
Fannie Mae disburses payment for buyups to lenders once a month in a single cash transfer covering all of the
lender’s mortgages with buyups that were in pools for which securities were issued in the previous month.
General Information on Buydowns
Lenders can buy down or agree to remit a lower guaranty fee than the applicable contract fee in exchange for a
one-time, upfront payment to Fannie Mae.
When Fannie Mae drafts the lender’s monthly guaranty fee remittances, it also will draft charges for buydowns
on pooled loans for which securities were issued in the previous month. Generally, lenders must place buydown
funds into a T&I escrow account. If buydown funds (or subsidy payments or other advance payments made by
the borrower) are directed for immediate application under the mortgage documents, the lender may deposit
these amounts directly into the P&I custodial account.
If a lender holds MBS certiﬁcates and the buydown account and its attorneys believe there are tax
complications, the lender may deposit the funds in a special account with another institution that meets Fannie
Mae’s requirements for custodial depositories. For more information, see Fannie Mae’s Servicing Guide.
If a lender buys down a guaranty fee but does not service the associated mortgage, Fannie Mae establishes a
receivable in the lender’s name. The lender must deposit the funds into a designated account in time for Fannie
Mae to draft the funds on the seventh calendar day of the month (or the preceding business day if the seventh
is a holiday or weekend) following the issue date of the related MBS pool.
Accessing Buyup and Buydown Ratios
Published June 3, 2026
991
Fannie Mae posts guaranty fee buyup/buydown ratios for nearly all mortgage products in a matrix format that
enables a lender to ﬁnd the applicable buyup or buydown ratio for any individual mortgage that it plans to
include in an MBS pool by using the gross note rate and remaining term (in months) of the mortgage.
Information concerning guaranty fee buyup or buydown ratios can come from several diﬀerent sources. For
example,
registered users of PE-MBS can obtain them on the day they are posted by accessing PE-MBS, and
lenders may request a copy of the posted ratios from their Fannie Mae customer account team.
Refer to Fannie Mae’s website for information about the buyup and buydown grids.
Calculating Buyup Payments and Buydown Charges
The total buyup disbursement or buydown charge is calculated as follows:
multiply the number of basis points by which each mortgage in a given pool was bought up/down (the
diﬀerence between the “guaranty fee rate before the buyup or buydown” and the “guaranty fee rate
after the buyup/buydown”) by the “buyup/buydown per basis point” (rounding to three decimal places),
multiply the rounded product by 0.0001 to convert the basis points to a decimal equivalent, and
multiply the decimal equivalent by the delivered unpaid principal balance with a guaranty fee rate
buyup/buydown.
Do this for all pools that include mortgages with guaranty fee rate buyups/buydowns and settled in the month.
The total of the buyups or buydowns for all of the pools will be the amount Fannie Mae collects, disburses, or
nets.
Buyup Payment Recapture
With respect to any mortgage loan that pays oﬀ within 120 days from the MBS issue date that involved a
guaranty fee buyup, Fannie Mae reserves the right to request reimbursement of any or all buyup proceeds paid
by Fannie Mae.
For mortgage loans repurchased by a lender, Fannie Mae in its sole discretion may require reimbursement by
the lender of any buyup proceeds paid by Fannie Mae in connection with the purchase of the related
repurchased mortgage loan without regard to the 120–day limitation.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Published June 3, 2026
992
 
C3-3-03, Buying Up and Buying Down the Guaranty Fee for MBS
(05/07/2025)
Introduction
This topic contains information on buying up and buying down the guaranty fee for MBS, including:
Guaranty Fee Buyup Maximums and Buydown Minimums for Fixed-Rate Mortgages
Eligibility Requirements for ARM Guaranty Fee Buyups and Buydowns
Guaranty Fee Buyup Maximums and Buydown Minimums for ARMs
Guaranty Fee Buyup Maximums and Buydown Minimums for Fixed-Rate
Mortgages
The maximum guaranty fee buyup amount is stated in the lender's MBS commitment. The guaranty fee cannot
be bought down to a number less than zero.
Eligibility Requirements for ARM Guaranty Fee Buyups and Buydowns
A lender may buy up or buy down the guaranty fee remittance for MBS pools consisting of adjustable-rate
mortgages (ARMs) originated under any standard ARM plan, as long as the mortgages meet the following
eligibility criteria:
The guaranty fee rate may be bought up or bought down in increments of 0.0001% (one one-hundredth
of a basis point).
Any buyup or buydown of the guaranty fee remittance rate for adjustable-rate MBS pools must be
calculated on the reduced guaranty fee remittance rate that applies to this type of remittance cycle.
Guaranty Fee Buyup Maximums and Buydown Minimums for ARMs
The weighted-average coupon of the pooled mortgages must not exceed the following limits:
1.000% (100 basis points) higher than the accrual rate (the pass-through rate) for the pool as of the issue
date for mortgages originated under most ARM plans; or
0.875% (87.5 basis points for mortgages originated under ARM plans that have initial ﬁxed-rate periods of
3, 5, 7, or 10 years).
The recommended maximum allowable interest rate is 100 basis points (1%) over the minimum allowable
interest rate.