SECTION: C3-3-01
TITLE: Determining and Remitting Guaranty Fees
EFFECTIVE: 10/25/2011
PAGES: 1006-1007
---
Published June 3, 2026
988
Fannie Mae may pair-oﬀ the outstanding balance of a commitment on a lender’s behalf if the lender fails to pair-
oﬀ or roll the outstanding balance into the following issue month by last business day of the issue month of the
related commitment.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter C3-3, MBS Guaranty Fees and Guaranty Fee Buyups
and Buydowns
Introduction
Lenders must pay Fannie Mae a guaranty fee remittance each month as compensation for the lender’s right to
participate in the MBS program. This chapter provides information on guaranty fees and the requirements
associated with buying the fee up or down.
C3-3-01, Determining and Remitting Guaranty Fees (10/25/2011)
Introduction
This topic provides information on the factors used to determine the amount of a lender’s guaranty fee,
including:
Guaranty Fee Overview
Determining the Annualized Weighted-Average Guaranty Fee Factor for a Pool
Determining the Monthly Guaranty Fee Remittance for the Pool
Remitting Guaranty Fees to Fannie Mae
Guaranty Fee Overview
The guaranty fee for individual loans included in an MBS pool depends upon the credit risk associated with the
loan and the lender’s choice of servicing option and remittance cycle. The guaranty fee remittance for MBS
pools is based upon a weighted-average guaranty factor. See below for a description of how to calculate the
annualized weighted-guaranty factor and the pool guaranty fee.
Determining the Annualized Weighted-Average Guaranty Fee Factor for a Pool
The annualized weighted-average guaranty fee factor for a pool (expressed in basis points) is determined by
multiplying the issue date principal balance of each mortgage loan in the pool (or, in subsequent months, the
Published June 3, 2026
989
“scheduled” balance of each mortgage loan) by the applicable guaranty fee rate for the mortgage loan
expressed in basis points (adjusted for any remittance cycle adjustments, buyup, or buydown, if applicable),
then:
summing the products of all the mortgage loans in the pool,
dividing that sum by the aggregate issue date principal balance for the pool (or, in subsequent months,
by the “scheduled” security balance for the pool), and
rounding the result to the nearest hundredth of a basis point.
The result is the annualized weighted-average guaranty fee factor for a pool.
Determining the Monthly Guaranty Fee Remittance for the Pool
The annualized weighted-average guaranty fee factor is then
multiplied by the aggregate issue date principal balance of the pool (or, in subsequent months, the
“scheduled” security balance for the pool),
divided by 120,000, and
rounded to two decimal places.
The result is monthly guaranty fee remittance for the pool.
Remitting Guaranty Fees to Fannie Mae
On the 7th day of each month (or, if the 7th is a holiday or weekend, on the preceding business day), Fannie
Mae will draft guaranty fee remittances from the custodial bank account the lender designates as its draft
account.
If the guaranty fee remittance is to be drafted from the lender’s P&I custodial account for MBS pools, then the
lender must make sure that it does not withdraw the guaranty fee remittance when it takes its monthly
servicing fee from the account.
For more information about designating bank accounts for drafting purposes and conﬁrming guaranty fee
remittances, see the Servicing Guide.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.