SECTION: C3-5-01
TITLE: Creating Weighted-Average ARM MBS
EFFECTIVE: 08/26/2014
PAGES: 1013-1014
---
Published June 3, 2026
995
Fannie Mae issues and specially designates securities that are backed by conventional loans that have loan
terms that do not extend for more than 10 years after the origination of the loan. Such securities will have a
maturity date no greater than 10 years from their issue date, which represents the date by which all loans
backing the pool will have been liquidated from the pool and the securities will have been retired.
The loans must:
have original terms of no less than 85 months and no more than 120 months for both single-issuer pools
and Fannie Majors, and
provide for the reduction of the principal amount of the loan to zero no more than 10 years after the issue
date of the related securities.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Chapter C3-5, Pooling Loans into ARM MBS
Introduction
There are two primary types of ARM MBS pools with weighted-average coupons, also called ARM Flex pools.
Accrual rates for ARM Flex pools may be based on a weighted-average or a ﬁxed MBS margin. This chapter
provides information on pooling loans into ARM MBS, including:
C3-5-01, Creating Weighted-Average ARM MBS (08/26/2014)
Introduction
This topic contains information on creating weighted-average ARM MBS (ARM Flex), including
General Information on Weighted-Average ARM MBS (ARM Flex)
ARM Flex Pool Accrual Rate Calculation Options
General Information on Weighted-Average ARM MBS (ARM Flex)
Published June 3, 2026
996
ARM Flex pools provide interest accruals at a weighted-average pool accrual rate to the holders of securities
backed by the ARMs in the pool. These pools may be delivered only as single pool transactions and diﬀerent
standard ARM plans may not be commingled in the same pool.
The original term of an ARM included in a weighted-average ARM MBS pool must be no more than 30 years.
Each mortgage must accrue interest in arrears and have a payment due date of the ﬁrst day of the month.
There is no restriction on the range of ﬁrst payment due dates, interest rate change dates, and payment change
dates.
To limit the eﬀect that prepayments have on the weighted-average pool accrual rate of an ARM Flex, lenders
should consider limiting to 1% (100 basis points) the range between the lowest and highest mortgage margins
and the lowest and highest mortgage interest rate ceilings of all the mortgages in the pool.
ARM Flex Pool Accrual Rate Calculation Options
Under the ARM Flex pooling structure, lenders may create a weighted-average ARM MBS using either the
ﬁxed MBS margin or
weighted-average MBS margin.
The diﬀerence between the two margin types is the method used to determine the interest rate that accrues on
the pool and the retained servicing fee. The ﬁxed MBS margin option is based on a pool-level MBS margin and a
loan-level servicing fee. This means that when the pooled mortgages have diﬀerent mortgage margins, the
servicing fees for the mortgages vary in order to equalize the diﬀerences in the mortgage margins. While the
guaranty fee remains the same, the servicing spread (the sum of the servicing fee and the guaranty fee and, if
applicable the periodic renewal premium for lender-purchased mortgage insurance) diﬀers from mortgage to
mortgage.
The ﬁxed MBS margin applies to each mortgage in the weighted-average ARM MBS; therefore, the lowest
mortgage margin in the pool must be able to, at least, support the sum of the MBS margin, the guaranty fee,
and the minimum allowable servicing fee. The periodic renewal premium for lender-purchased mortgage
insurance must also be included, if applicable.
The weighted-average MBS margin option is based on a pool-level servicing fee and a loan-level MBS margin,
which means that when the mortgages in the pool have diﬀerent mortgage margins, the servicing spread will be
equal for all the mortgages, but the MBS margin will vary from mortgage to mortgage.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C3-5-02, Calculating the Weighted-Average Pool Accrual Rates for