SECTION: C3-5-05
TITLE: Commingling ARMs in MBS
EFFECTIVE: 02/23/2016
PAGES: 1023-1024
---
Published June 3, 2026
1005
commitment that it has outstanding, as long as Fannie Mae’s original acceptance of the mortgage was not
conditional on the lender providing some type of special recourse or credit enhancement.
Redelivering a Converted ARM that Originally Required Recourse or Credit
Enhancement
If Fannie Mae originally required recourse or credit enhancement on an ARM that includes an option to convert
to a ﬁxed-rate mortgage, and the conditions that led to its requirement still exist, then lenders will not be able
to use a standard commitment to redeliver the converted mortgage to Fannie Mae. Instead, lenders must
obtain a new negotiated contract (which may or may not require recourse or credit enhancement) or
include the converted mortgage as part of a delivery under an outstanding negotiated contract that has
acceptable recourse or credit enhancement.
If the conditions that led to Fannie Mae requiring recourse or credit enhancement no longer exist, and Fannie
Mae determines that the recourse or credit enhancement is no longer necessary, lenders may redeliver the
converted mortgage under
a standard whole loan commitment, or
a standard MBS commitment.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-5-05, Commingling ARMs in MBS (02/23/2016)
Introduction
This topic provides information on commingling ARMs, including:
ARM Loan Types Lenders May Commingle in the Same Pool
ARM Loan Types Lenders May Not Commingle in the Same Pool
ARM Loan Types Lenders May Commingle in the Same Pool
Published June 3, 2026
1006
ARMs originated under the same ARM plan may have original terms up to 30 years and may be commingled in
the same ARM pool.
ARM Loan Types Lenders May Not Commingle in the Same Pool
ARMs originated under diﬀerent ARM plans cannot be commingled in the same pool. In certain cases, however,
lenders may be permitted to pool seasoned ARMs in ARM plans with shorter initial ﬁxed-rate periods. Interested
lenders should contact their Fannie Mae customer account team to determine what ﬂexibility may be available
for a speciﬁc situation.
ARMs originated under a single ARM plan, but with diﬀerent post-conversion disposition options (market rate
option or take-out option) cannot be included in the same pool.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter C3-6, Pooling Loans into Fannie Majors
Introduction
Lenders can pool mortgages into two types of MBS, which includes UMBS: Single-Issuer and Fannie Majors. This
chapter provides information on pooling loans into Fannie Majors.
C3-6-01, Parameters for Pooling Loans Into Fannie Majors
(09/04/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains general parameters for pooling loans into Fannie Majors, including:
Fannie Majors Overview
Obtaining Fannie Majors Pool Numbers
Selecting Mortgages to Include in a Fannie Majors Pool
Selecting a Settlement Date and Security Issuance
Making Multiple Submissions
Fannie Majors Overview
Fannie Majors are pools of loans that are contributed by more than one lender. Lenders participating in a Fannie
Majors pool receive an MBS representing its share of the pool in proportion to the dollar amount of mortgages it