SECTION: C3-6-01
TITLE: Parameters for Pooling Loans Into Fannie Majors
EFFECTIVE: 09/04/2024
PAGES: 1024-1026
---
Published June 3, 2026
1006
ARMs originated under the same ARM plan may have original terms up to 30 years and may be commingled in
the same ARM pool.
ARM Loan Types Lenders May Not Commingle in the Same Pool
ARMs originated under diﬀerent ARM plans cannot be commingled in the same pool. In certain cases, however,
lenders may be permitted to pool seasoned ARMs in ARM plans with shorter initial ﬁxed-rate periods. Interested
lenders should contact their Fannie Mae customer account team to determine what ﬂexibility may be available
for a speciﬁc situation.
ARMs originated under a single ARM plan, but with diﬀerent post-conversion disposition options (market rate
option or take-out option) cannot be included in the same pool.
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
Chapter C3-6, Pooling Loans into Fannie Majors
Introduction
Lenders can pool mortgages into two types of MBS, which includes UMBS: Single-Issuer and Fannie Majors. This
chapter provides information on pooling loans into Fannie Majors.
C3-6-01, Parameters for Pooling Loans Into Fannie Majors
(09/04/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains general parameters for pooling loans into Fannie Majors, including:
Fannie Majors Overview
Obtaining Fannie Majors Pool Numbers
Selecting Mortgages to Include in a Fannie Majors Pool
Selecting a Settlement Date and Security Issuance
Making Multiple Submissions
Fannie Majors Overview
Fannie Majors are pools of loans that are contributed by more than one lender. Lenders participating in a Fannie
Majors pool receive an MBS representing its share of the pool in proportion to the dollar amount of mortgages it
Published June 3, 2026
1007
contributed to the pool.
Obtaining Fannie Majors Pool Numbers
The pool number identiﬁes the pools in which a lender’s loans are included. Fannie Mae assigns Fannie Majors
pool numbers based on loan term, pass-through rate, and the month of issuance. Pool numbers, CUSIP numbers,
and pass-through rates are posted on the Fannie Majors page on Fannie Mae's website and on the various wire
services.
Selecting Mortgages to Include in a Fannie Majors Pool
When deciding which mortgages to include in a Fannie Majors pool, lenders must make sure that:
the mortgage conforms to the appropriate product type,
the mortgage has the appropriate seasoning,
the note rate is within the minimum and maximum range in relation to the pass-through rate, and
the minimum submission size is satisﬁed.
To be eligible for a Fannie Majors pool, mortgages may be no older than 11 months as of the security issue date.
For example, all loans to be included in a December 2019 pool, must have ﬁrst payment dates on or after
January 2019.
As with single-lender, ﬁxed-rate MBS pools, the minimum and maximum allowable interest rate within a Fannie
Majors pool is 25 basis points (.25%) and 112.5 basis points (1.125%) respectively above the pool’s pass-
through rate. Lenders can use loan-level buyups and buydowns to eliminate excess servicing and, in the case of
buydowns, include loans in a higher coupon.
Fannie Majors have a minimum submission requirement of $1,000 when lenders deliver the loan to Fannie Mae.
To qualify for a Fannie Mae Green Majors pool, loans must meet Green MBS eligibility standards and have an
eligible green building certiﬁcation. See  C1-2-05, Delivering Green MBS to Fannie Mae for additional details.
Selecting a Settlement Date and Security Issuance
Lenders may choose their own settlement date for a Fannie Majors pool. If a lender makes several submissions
into the same Fannie Majors pool, it may select diﬀerent settlement dates for each.
Fannie Mae can issue securities in book-entry form within three business days after the lender submits a
complete, error-free pool documentation package via Loan Delivery, as long as Fannie Mae receives:
the lender’s transmission of the loan delivery data by 6:00 p.m. (Eastern time), and
the transmission of the document custodian’s pool certiﬁcation by 10:30 a.m. (Eastern time) on the day
following the lender’s Loan Delivery transmission.
See C3-7-06, Settling the Trade, for additional information on turnaround times.
Published June 3, 2026
1008
A lender delivering into Fannie Majors receives securities rounded to the lowest whole dollar amount of the
loans it contributed to the pool, unless it requests otherwise. Fannie Mae issues certiﬁcates in minimum
denominations of $1,000 with additional increments of one dollar. Only one security denomination can be issued
for each account.
Making Multiple Submissions
A lender may deliver several diﬀerent pieces for inclusion in a multiple pool (Fannie Majors) as long as all of the
pieces have the same remittance cycle. This means that delivery of multiple servicer numbers per seller number
is permitted in a Fannie Majors pool; however each piece must have one seller/servicer combination. In addition,
each piece must be submitted separately and must meet the $1,000 minimum submission requirement.
Fannie Mae will combine the submissions with the same branch seller/servicer number and remittance day into
the same pool under the same lender. These loans must be serviced as one pool after issuance. The dollar
amount of the lender’s securities will be equal to the sum of the issue date principal balances of all the
mortgages from each of the lender’s pool documentation packages related to the multiple pool, rounded down
to the next lowest whole dollar amount.
Lenders may deliver nonstandard loans into Fannie Majors MBS pools. Each discrete delivery the lender makes
under a given Fannie Majors TBA–eligible UMBS pool will be subject to the limitations that apply to a single
TBA–eligible UMBS pool. See  C3-2-01, Determining Eligibility for Loans Pooled into MBS for additional
information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
Chapter C3-7, Delivering and Trading MBS
Introduction
Lenders that sell their MBS rather than hold them as an investment may work with Fannie Mae’s Capital Markets