SECTION: C3-7-01
TITLE: Establishing an MBS Trading Account
EFFECTIVE: 10/06/2021
PAGES: 1027-1034
---
Published June 3, 2026
1009
Pricing and Sales Desk to obtain a competitive price. In this chapter, the steps entailed in delivering and trading
MBS and the requirements associated with these processes are provided.
C3-7-01, Establishing an MBS Trading Account (10/06/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information on establishing an MBS trading account, including:
Process Used to Establish a Trading Account
Requirements and Terms Governing the Trading Account
Terms and Conditions Governing Use of the Electronic Trading Platform
Establishment of Trading Limits and Margin Requirements
Oﬀsetting Price Diﬀerentials
Designated Threshold Amount and Minimum Transfer Amount
Default of Lender Under the Terms of Trading Account
Consequences of a Default
Remedies for the Default of a Lender’s Trading Account
Suitability and Risk of Loss
Transactional Intent of the Lender and Fannie Mae
Process Used to Establish a Trading Account
The table below describes the stages to establish a trading account.
Stage Description
1 To establish a trading account, the lender may call the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
See E-1-02, List of Contacts.
2
Each lender must provide the following information:
• either a corporate resolution from its board of directors or an oﬃcer’s certiﬁcate to indicate
its authority to establish a trading account with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk;
and
• the names of the designated individuals who will be authorized to sell securities to, or to buy
them from, the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk and the limit of their authority (if any).
Published June 3, 2026
1010
Stage Description
3
Each lender must provide an address that can be used for all oﬃcial notices and
communications sent to the lender, and wiring instructions for the diﬀerent types of payments
Fannie Mae makes to the lender.
4
The lender must continue to provide updates about any changes to its authority to perform
under the trading account, the individuals authorized to transact business with the Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk (or their limits of authority), and the lender’s address or wiring
instructions.
Requirements and Terms Governing the Trading Account
A lender’s trading account is governed by the terms of its Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract (MSSC), the
provisions of this Guide and any special instructions provided for in a speciﬁc trade conﬁrmation or settlement
notice.
By initiating trade activity with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, lenders agree to adhere to Fannie
Mae’s guidelines for selling securities and to SIFMA's Uniform Practices for the Clearance and Settlement of
Mortgage-Backed Securities and Other Related Securities, including any amendments to either. Should there be
a conﬂict between the requirements in this Guide and the SIFMA provisions, the requirements of this Guide take
precedence.
As security for payment of its obligations and liabilities under its trading account, the lender grants Fannie Mae
a ﬁrst priority security interest in any and all of its right, title, and interest in its securities, money, or other
property that is held for (or by) Fannie Mae.
If appropriate authorities require the ﬁling of a ﬁnancing statement to evidence this security interest, the lender
must execute and deliver any legal instruments required to protect or perfect Fannie Mae’s security interest.
Terms and Conditions Governing Use of the Electronic Trading Platform
By accessing Fannie Mae’s electronic trading platform, currently known as the MBS Trading Portal, the lender
agrees that the platform will be a “Licensed Application,” as deﬁned in the Software Subscription Agreement
General Terms and Conditions. See the Consolidated Technology Guide. The lender also agrees that it is subject
to the General Terms and Conditions, and that the following additional terms apply.
Authorized User For purposes of the electronic trading platform, the term “Authorized User” includes
individuals:
working for Third-Party Providers retained by the lender to perform mortgage-related services requiring
access to the Licensed Application on the lender’s behalf or third-party originators (such as mortgage
brokers or correspondents that are aﬃliated with lender) that require access to the Licensed Application;
and
who have obtained Authentication Credentials as a result of the lender’s actions.
Published June 3, 2026
1011
The lender agrees that actions of Authorized Users are deemed to be actions of the lender.
Evidence of a Trade The Licensed Application’s conﬁrmation of a trade as “Accepted,” together with the
Selling Guide and any applicable MBS trading agreement between lender and Fannie Mae, the conclusive
evidence of a trade and the terms between Fannie Mae and lender with respect to the trade described in the
conﬁrmation.
Indicative Pricing If indicative pricing is displayed to the lender, the lender acknowledges and understands
that such pricing is not the actual pricing and is subject to increase or decrease prior to acceptance of the trade.
Termination of Relationships Fannie Mae reserves the right to immediately suspend or terminate any
relationship established between a lender and a third party by and for the Licensed Application at any time, in
its sole discretion.
Establishment of Trading Limits and Margin Requirements
When Fannie Mae establishes a trading account for a lender, it may establish trading limits, margin
requirements, a designated threshold amount, and a minimum transfer amount speciﬁc to a lender.
After a trading account is established for a lender, Fannie Mae may:
amend or cancel any trading limits, margin requirements, designated threshold amounts, or minimum
transfer amounts initially imposed on a lender’s trading accounts; and
decline to engage in any speciﬁc transaction with the lender.
Oﬀsetting Price Diﬀerentials
Subject to the applicable designated threshold amount and minimum transfer amount (deﬁned below), a lender
and Fannie Mae may elect to exchange variation margin if there is a price diﬀerential on the lender’s open
(unsettled) trades with Fannie Mae.
A price diﬀerential exists if, at any time, with respect to a lender’s open trades with the Capital Markets Pricing
and Sales Desk, either party would incur a loss if it canceled the open trades and entered into replacement
transactions (i.e., there is a diﬀerence between the current market price and the settlement price of the open
trades). If a price diﬀerential exists, the party that would receive positive income from the cancellation of the
open trades and entry into replacement transactions is “in the money,” and the party that would incur a cost
from the cancellation of the open trades and entry into replacement transactions is “out of the money.”
If there is a negative price diﬀerential for a lender’s open trades with the Capital Markets Pricing and
Sales Desk (i.e., on any trading day, the lender is “out of the money” with regard to the securities it has
contracted to purchase or sell to Fannie Mae), then Fannie Mae may request that the lender wire cash to
Fannie Mae, subject to the lender’s designated threshold amount and minimum transfer amount.
If there is a positive price diﬀerential for a lender’s open trades with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales
Desk (i.e., on any trading day, the lender is “in the money” with regard to the securities the lender has
contracted to purchase or sell to Fannie Mae), then the lender may request that Fannie Mae wire cash to
the lender, subject to Fannie Mae’s designated threshold amount and minimum transfer amount.
Published June 3, 2026
1012
When calculating the price diﬀerential:
any open trades between the lender and the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk will be disregarded if
they have been assigned, submitted, transferred, or reported to a securities clearing organization (e.g.,
the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation) for clearing, netting, and/or settlement such that the open trade
will be factored into the applicable margin requirements of such securities clearing organization; and
any outstanding pair-oﬀ fees relating to trades between the lender and the Capital Markets Pricing and
Sales Desk will be factored into the calculation of the price diﬀerential.
Designated Threshold Amount and Minimum Transfer Amount
The designated threshold amount represents a level of unsecured exposure an “in the money” party will accept
before making a margin call on the “out of the money” party. Fannie Mae’s designated threshold amount and a
lender’s designated threshold amount shall each be $3,000,000, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties in
writing and/or subject to the occurrence of a triggering event as discussed below.
Example
If there is a positive price diﬀerential and a lender is in the money by $3,100,000, the lender may make a
margin call to Fannie Mae for $100,000. ($3,100,000 – Fannie Mae’s designated threshold amount of
$3,000,000).
A minimum transfer is a speciﬁed amount of money that must be exceeded before a margin call can be made.
Fannie Mae’s minimum transfer amount and a lender’s minimum transfer amount shall each be $50,000, unless
otherwise agreed to by the parties in writing and/or subject to the occurrence of a triggering event as discussed
below.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Fannie Mae will not wire cash to a lender in the event of a positive price
diﬀerential if any of the following “triggering events” has occurred with respect to a lender:
an event of default under the Lender Contract or any other contract between Fannie Mae and the lender,
the lender’s failure to meet any of the lender eligibility requirements set forth in Subpart A-4, Maintaining
Lender Eligibility,
a decline in a lender’s adjusted net worth by more than 20% over a quarterly reporting period or by more
than 30% over two consecutive quarterly periods,
the total unpaid principal balance of all outstanding Fannie Mae repurchase requests to a lender exceeds
15% of the lender’s adjusted net worth,
Fannie Mae comes into possession of information that, in Fannie Mae’s reasonable discretion, could result
in an adverse impact, either presently or in the future, on the lender’s counterparty relationship with
Fannie Mae or the lender’s ﬁnancial condition, or
outstanding contractual fees owed by a lender to Fannie Mae.
Further, upon occurrence of a triggering event for a lender, Fannie Mae, in its sole and absolute discretion, may
modify or eliminate the designated threshold amount and minimum transfer amount applicable to such lender
without prior notice to the lender.
Published June 3, 2026
1013
Default of Lender Under the Terms of Trading Account
Under the terms of the trading account, certain events could result in the lender being in default. A lender is in
default if Fannie Mae determines, at any time, that any of the representations that were made regarding the
lender’s ability (or that of a designated authorized individual) to transact business is incorrect or untrue in any
material respect, or if the lender:
initiates a case or proceeding (or has a suit brought against it) under any bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, or similar law;
seeks the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or similar oﬃcial for itself or any substantial part
of its property;
executes a general assignment for the beneﬁt of its creditors;
admits in writing that it does not have the ability to pay its debts as they come due;
is subject to an outstanding, uncontested order of relief or a protective decree issued under the Securities
Investor Protection Act; or
fails to perform as required. Instances of nonperformance that constitute a default include the failure to:
perform any of the obligations set out in a conﬁrmation or settlement notice;
perform any obligations with respect to completing a trade (or the admission that it is unable or
unwilling to do so);
perform obligations under any other agreement or contract it has with Fannie Mae;
if notice is sent by Fannie Mae by 10:00 a.m. on a business day, satisfy the price diﬀerential on
lender’s trades with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk by the close of business on that
same business day; or
if notice is sent by Fannie Mae after 10:00 a.m. on a business day, satisfy the price diﬀerential on
lender’s trades with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk by 12:00 noon on the next
business day.
Consequences of a Default
A default with respect to one transaction will constitute a default for all of the lender’s transactions with the
Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk. See E-1-02, List of Contacts.
The lender’s payments, deliveries, and transfers for one transaction may be applied (“netted”) against the
lender’s other transactions.
Fannie Mae also may treat a default under the lender’s trading account as a default under the lender’s MSSC.
When that is the case, the provisions for “termination (of a selling or servicing arrangement or the contract) for
cause” that are set out in A2-3.1-01, Lender Breach of Contract, will apply.
Remedies for the Default of a Lender’s Trading Account
Published June 3, 2026
1014
The lender will be liable for any losses incurred by Fannie Mae due to the lender’s default with the Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk. See E-1-02, List of Contacts. The following table details the remedies that are
available to Fannie Mae when it declares a lender to be in default under its trading account.
If … Then …
Fannie Mae declares a lender to be in default
under its trading account,
Fannie Mae may require that the settlement for all of
the lender’s outstanding transactions be accelerated
and take place immediately. In addition, Fannie Mae
shall have all rights and remedies of a secured party
under the Uniform Commercial Code and any other
rights available under applicable law.
The lender was committed to buy securities
from the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales
Desk,
Fannie Mae may sell the securities at the current
market value (or, as an alternative, give the lender
credit for the current market value as if a sale had
taken place). The lender will then be liable for any
losses incurred by Fannie Mae that occur because the
current market value is less than the purchase price the
lender would have paid had the securities been
transferred to it.
The lender was committed to sell securities to
the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk,
Fannie Mae may purchase securities of the same class
and amount as those the lender was committed to sell
at the current market value (or, as an alternative, deem
itself to have purchased the comparable securities for
the purpose of determining the lender’s liability). The
lender will then be liable for any losses incurred by
Fannie Mae that occur because the current market
value is greater than the purchase price Fannie Mae
would have paid had the lender transferred the
securities to the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
In addition, the lender must pay:
all reasonable legal and other expenses Fannie Mae incurs in connection with, or as the result of, the
lender’s default under its trading account, and
interest on the Fannie Mae losses and expenses for which the lender is liable from the date of default to
the date the lender reimburses Fannie Mae.
Note: The interest charged will be based upon the prime rate for commercial banks that is
published in The Wall Street Journal.
Published June 3, 2026
1015
If necessary, Fannie Mae may liquidate and apply against the obligations the lender owes as the result of its
default, any and all of the lender’s securities, money, and other property that is held for (or by) Fannie Mae.
Suitability and Risk of Loss
The risk of loss when transacting with the Capital Market Pricing and Sales Desk can be substantial. A lender
should carefully consider whether a transaction is suitable in light of its ﬁnancial condition, its investment
objectives, and any legal or regulatory restrictions to which it may be subject. The market value for the
securities to be purchased or sold by a lender can vary substantially over the term of a transaction. A lender
should carefully consider if it has the operational resources in place to monitor the risks and contractual
obligations of a transaction, including the risk that Fannie Mae may request that a lender post margin to satisfy
a price diﬀerential on the same or the following business day.
By agreeing to a conﬁrmation, the lender is deemed to have represented and warranted that it understands the
risks associated with the transaction with the Capital Market Pricing and Sales Desk, and the lender believes
that the transaction is suitable for the lender. Similarly, to the extent that the lender assigns or transfers any of
its rights and obligations under any transaction, the lender shall be deemed to represent and warrant as of the
date of such assignment that the lender has reasonable grounds to believe that any such assigned transaction
is a suitable transaction for the assignee. Fannie Mae and the lender agree that, if any rights and obligations are
so assigned by the lender, notwithstanding any consent to such assignment by Fannie Mae, Fannie Mae shall
have no obligation to undertake an evaluation of the suitability of the assigned rights and obligations to the
assignee.
Before engaging in any transactions with the Capital Market Pricing and Sales Desk, a lender should consult its
own business, legal, tax, risk, accounting, and other advisers and examine the provisions in this Chapter of the
Guide to determine whether the risks to the lender are appropriate.
Transactional Intent of the Lender and Fannie Mae
The lender acknowledges, at all times, that Fannie Mae is not acting as a ﬁduciary or an advisor with respect to
any transaction with the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk.
The lender and Fannie Mae also agree that transactions between the lender and the Capital Market Pricing and
Sales Desk are intended to be:
”forward contracts,” “securities contracts, ” and “master netting agreements,” as such terms are deﬁned
in the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, and of a type set forth in Section 5390(c)(8)(D) or
Title 12, as amended;
“qualiﬁed ﬁnancial contracts,” if the lender is an “insured depository institution” under the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act, as amended; and
a “netting contract” as deﬁned in and subject to Title IV of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991, as amended, and each payment entitlement and payment obligation under
any transaction shall constitute a “covered contractual payment entitlement” or “covered contractual
payment obligation, respectively, as such terms are deﬁned in such Act.
The lender and Fannie Mae also agree that either party’s rights to cancel a transaction or exercise any other
Published June 3, 2026
1016
remedies upon a default is a contractual right to liquidate such transaction as described in Section 555 and 556
of the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, and a right to terminate, liquidate, or accelerate as
described in Sections 5390(c)(8)(A) and (C) of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-09 October 06, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C3-7-02, Initiating an MBS Sale (07/07/2021)
Introduction
This topic describes the steps lenders take to initiate an MBS, including UMBS, sale via Fannie Mae’s Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, including:
Determining the Trade Type
Checking Market Prices
Selecting a Settlement Date
Selecting a Settlement Method
Requesting and Accepting a Firm Bid/Oﬀer
Determining the Trade Type
If a lender sells MBS, its trade may be TBA or speciﬁed. With a TBA trade, the lender may deliver any UMBS
meeting eligibility requirements as deﬁned by SIFMA. A speciﬁed trade means that a speciﬁc MBS is being
traded and only that security can be delivered in satisfaction of the trade. TBA trades settle on the SIFMA
settlement dates (see Pool Settlement Dates).
Checking Market Prices
See C3-1-01, General Information About Fannie Mae’s MBS Program, for information on MBS prices and their
determinants. Prices of Fannie Mae MBS are quoted in 32nds of a percent for both immediate and forward
delivery issues.