SECTION: C3-7-04
TITLE: Delivering MBS Pool Data and Documents
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2026
PAGES: 1039-1043
---
Published June 3, 2026
1021
MBS Pass-Through Rate Original Trade Amount Maximum Number of Pools
≥ 8%
≤ $500,000 3
> $500,000 and < $1,000,000 4
≥ $1,000,000 5 pools per each million dollars of
the trade amount
Pairing Oﬀ
If a lender is having diﬃculty meeting its commitment to deliver a security, the Desk may permit the lender to
execute a “pair-oﬀ.” The lender should request a pair-oﬀ well in advance of the scheduled settlement date to
avoid a “failed” delivery.
To request a pair-oﬀ, a lender may either:
request a “ﬁrm oﬀer” from the Desk, identifying the trade to be paired oﬀ. A ﬁrm oﬀer will enable the
lender to buy from the Desk (at current market value) an MBS that is comparable to the one the lender
agreed to sell to the Desk, or
arrange a transaction with a third party whereby the lender purchases the MBS from that party and
delivers it to the Desk in fulﬁllment of its commitment.
Pair-oﬀs are not always possible in certain market environments; therefore, a lender should evaluate market
conditions before considering their use.
The lender must wire pair-oﬀ funds to Fannie Mae on the settlement date. If the lender owes Fannie Mae pair-oﬀ
funds from two or more related buy and sell transactions that settle on the same day, it should remit a single
wire for the net amount due to Fannie Mae. The wire transfer must include the lender’s name, the settlement
date, and the word “pair-oﬀ.”
Fannie Mae has the right to charge interest on delinquent funds.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
Published June 3, 2026
1022
C3-7-04, Delivering MBS Pool Data and Documents (04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic includes speciﬁcs on pool data and documentation delivery requirements, including:
Required Documents for MBS Pool Loans
General MBS Pool Delivery Requirements
MBS Pool Data Delivery Requirements
MBS Pool Document Delivery Requirements
As Soon As Pooled Plus Loan Deliveries and Redeliveries as As Soon As Pooled Plus Pools
Required Documents for MBS Pool Loans
See E-2-01, Required Custodial Documents for a list of mortgage documents that should be included in the
document submission package for all loans. See also C3-7-07, Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties for
additional information.
General MBS Pool Delivery Requirements
A lender must deliver the mortgage document submission package to the document custodian at the same time
it transmits the loan delivery data to Fannie Mae. The submission package must be sent to the assigned
document custodian and addressed according to the instructions provided by that custodian. The custodian
must then complete the required loan certiﬁcation prior to pool closing, which must occur before Fannie Mae
issues the related securities.
The lender must allow suﬃcient processing time between the time it submits its loan delivery data and the
document submission package and the time it wants the securities to be issued in book-entry form. See
C3-7-07, Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties for additional information.
For additional information on the eligibility criteria for document custodians, see the RDC guide. For a complete
list of active document custodians, refer to Fannie Mae's Active Document Custodians.
MBS Pool Data Delivery Requirements
When the lender transmits its loan delivery data, it must include a Delivery Schedule in Loan Delivery for MBS
pools. The Delivery Schedule identiﬁes the parties to which the securities are to be issued. If the lender markets
and sells the securities before it submits its pool documentation to Fannie Mae, it must provide instructions
related to the delivery of the securities on this form. 
The lender must enter loan data into Loan Delivery. Data should include the Financial Institution Number (FIN) of
the applicable document custodian. When submitting loan delivery data to Fannie Mae, the lender represents
and warrants all of the following:
Published June 3, 2026
1023
the data is correct,
each loan listed is to be transferred to Fannie Mae on the book-entry delivery date of the related
securities, and
the loans will be delivered and serviced in accordance with the terms of the MBS commitment and Fannie
Mae’s Guides.
For information about speciﬁc FIN codes, see Loan Delivery Data Requirements.
Lenders delivering into Fannie Majors must include the Fannie Majors pool and CUSIP number in their deliveries.
The lender may submit data for loans in the same Fannie Majors at diﬀerent times and on diﬀerent days of the
month, as long as all of the loans submitted are the same product type and have the same remittance cycle and
servicer. All Fannie Major deliveries must be error-free and certiﬁed by 5:00 p.m. ET on the third to last business
day before the end of the month.
Example
In the following calendar example, the third to last business day of the month is Monday the 29th.
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31    
Lender submissions must align to the eligible settlement dates as published on the applicable Pool Settlement
Calendar for the issue month of the submission. Data submission must be transmitted in Loan Delivery by 7:00
p.m. ET on the published last day to submit to be eligible for delivery to Fannie Mae in that issue month. For
more information on eligible settlement and submission dates, see the Loan Delivery page on Fannie Mae’s
website.
Fannie Mae must have received the lender’s loan delivery data for a speciﬁc MBS pool transaction by the time it
receives the document custodian’s electronic certiﬁcation for the pool. Loan delivery data is sent electronically
to the document custodian and Fannie Mae at the same time, via Loan Delivery.
If the lender fails to deliver the required delivery data for any speciﬁc MBS pool transaction to Fannie Mae,
Fannie Mae may terminate the related MBS commitment by giving the lender written notice of the termination.
Fannie Mae will telephone the lender in advance to inform it that a written termination notiﬁcation is being sent.
MBS Pool Document Delivery Requirements
The lender must have a custodial arrangement for each MBS pool transaction it delivers to Fannie Mae. The
seller must add the document custodian to its proﬁle within the Loan Delivery application. In addition, the seller
must submit the FIN code for the document custodian in the delivery ﬁle. The FIN code allows the data to be
routed to the proper document custodian. Failure to specify the proper FIN may result in a delay of certiﬁcation
and/or MBS pool securitization. However, if an MBS pool contains one or more ASAP Plus loans, all loans within
the pool must be certiﬁed by the custodian who certiﬁed the ASAP Plus delivery. See ASAP Plus Loan Deliveries
and Redeliveries as ASAP Plus Pools below, for additional details.
Published June 3, 2026
1024
Once the lender has the applicable Master Custodial Agreement (Form 2017) on ﬁle with Fannie Mae for each of
the diﬀerent document custodians it uses, the lender will not need to advise Fannie Mae about the speciﬁc
custodial arrangement for speciﬁc MBS pools when they are delivered. See A3-3-04, Document Custodians for
additional information.
When a lender delivers loans into an MBS, it must send documentation on each mortgage to its document
custodian for certiﬁcation and retention of physical custody, from that point forward, pending successful
completion of the loan acquisition transaction. The lender should ensure that the mortgage document
submission package is submitted to its overnight carrier (with instructions for ﬁrst morning delivery) the same
day that the lender submits the loan data to Fannie Mae for purchase. Fannie Mae will certify loan data
delivered by the lender the following business day, provided the documents have been delivered to the
document custodian via ﬁrst morning delivery, and there are no discrepancies and no unresolved lien issues.
See E-1-02, List of Contacts.
When the document custodian receives the mortgage document submission package, it will review the related
mortgage documentation to verify all of the required documents have been received and are in order. The
document custodian will then work with the lender to correct any certiﬁcation data or document errors. Lenders
can opt-in to receive email notices through Loan Delivery when data or document discrepancies are noted
during certiﬁcation. Lenders then have the option to accept or decline data changes the custodian proposes as a
result of a discrepancy on the note and the data they provided. The lender must work with the custodian to
ensure all discrepancies are resolved.
If there are no document or data-related errors, the document custodian will transmit a certiﬁcation to Fannie
Mae.
As Soon As Pooled Plus Loan Deliveries and Redeliveries as As Soon As Pooled
Plus Pools
In addition to the instructions above in MBS Pool Document Delivery Requirements, the following requirements
also pertain to As Soon As Pooled Plus loan deliveries and redeliveries.
If lenders opt to redeliver an As Soon As Pooled Plus loan as a whole loan execution to Fannie Mae, they must
redeliver the loan to Fannie Mae via Loan Delivery. When an As Soon As Pooled Plus loan is redelivered as a
whole loan, the lender must include the FIN code upon redelivery. Failure to specify the proper code may result
in a delay of certiﬁcation and/or purchase of the loan.
If lenders opt to redeliver an As Soon As Pooled Plus loan as an MBS execution to Fannie Mae, they should
redeliver the loan to Fannie Mae via Loan Delivery.
If an MBS pool contains one or more As Soon As Pooled Plus loans, all ASAP Plus loans within the pool must be
certiﬁed by the same document custodian who certiﬁed the ASAP Plus loan. In addition, the lender must
transmit all of the loans in the pool with the same document custodian FIN code. The lender must also add the
document custodian to its proﬁle within the Loan Delivery application.
Failure to specify the proper FIN code may result in a delay of certiﬁcation and/or purchase of the loan.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
1025
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-03 April 01, 2026
Announcement SEL-2021-04 May 05, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-7-05, Conﬁrming Presettlement Information (04/01/2009)
Introduction
This topic provides the steps entailed and the information the lender must provide to Fannie Mae prior to the
security settlement date, including:
Basic Requirements for Presettlement
Information Required for Presettling Pools of Seasoned Mortgages
Information Required for Presettling ARM MBS
Basic Requirements for Presettlement
When a lender sells MBS through the Capital Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, it must call the Desk to verify
trade details no later than 3:00 p.m. (Eastern time) two business days before the settlement date. This is called
the notiﬁcation date.
If a lender needs to make any corrections or cancellations, it must call before 12:15 p.m. (Eastern time) on the
notiﬁcation date to ensure that delivery can take place within two business days. If the call is received after this
time, the delivery cannot take place until three business days after the notiﬁcation date.
Fannie Mae will accept a fax transmission of the trade details as long as the lender notiﬁes the Desk in advance
about the pending transmission and the transmission is received by 3:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on the notiﬁcation
date. See Capital Markets Operations Collateral Management for fax number information E-1-02, List of
Contacts.
After the change or deletion of the payee code has been made, Fannie Mae mails the lender a list of its
outstanding payee arrangements.