SECTION: C3-7-07
TITLE: Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties
EFFECTIVE: 05/05/2021
PAGES: 1049-1052
---
Published June 3, 2026
1031
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-7-07, Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties (05/05/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the sale of Fannie Mae securities to third parties, including:
Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties Overview
Required Disclosure Materials
Standard Delivery
Alternative Website Delivery
Indemniﬁcation Against Losses
Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties Overview
The lender must provide each purchaser of a security a copy of the most recent Fannie Mae MBS Prospectus
when it enters into a contract to sell the security.
If the security purchaser requests an original printed version of the Prospectus, Prospectus Supplement, or
Supplement to Prospectus Supplement, the lender must honor the request in a timely manner. Electronic
versions of these documents are available at Mortgage-Backed Securities.
Copies of the prospectus and the related prospectus supplement may be obtained by writing to Trust
Agreement and Prospectus Requests or by calling the Fannie Mae Delivery and Custody Helpline (see E-1-02,
List of Contacts). Typically, the prospectus supplement is available no later than two business days before
settlement of the related issuance of certiﬁcates.
If a newly issued pool has already been sold to a third party for future settlement, the lender is responsible for
ensuring they abide by all rules related to the trade. This includes providing all necessary disclosure documents
as deﬁned by the relevant trade agreement with the counterparty.
Required Disclosure Materials
The lender must provide the required disclosure documentation (described below) to a purchaser or prospective
purchaser, as applicable. The lender will have two options to provide this disclosure: the lender must follow
either the Standard Delivery option or the Alternative Website Delivery option, each as described below. The
lender’s sale of securities—including any that Fannie Mae delivers based on the lender’s instructions on the
Published June 3, 2026
1032
Delivery Schedule (Form 2014) — also must comply with applicable securities disclosure and settlement
requirements, including those set forth below under either the Standard Delivery option or the Alternative
Website Delivery option.
For any trade, TBA or otherwise, the required disclosure consists of both the Single-Family Prospectus and the
Prospectus Supplement applicable to the MBS program.
Standard Delivery
The lender must provide the required disclosure materials to each purchaser (that is, a party that enters into an
agreement to purchase the security) at the time the lender enters into a contract for the purchase and sale of
that security or to an oﬀeree (that is, prospective purchaser) that requests the oﬀering documentation.
The required disclosure materials are to be provided in a manner agreed to by the lender and the purchaser of a
security. This may include electronic delivery or mailing of a hard copy. The materials are available on Fannie
Mae's website. The lender also may obtain them by contacting the Fixed-Income Investor Helpline (see E-1-02,
List of Contacts). On request, Fannie Mae will provide these documents to the lender as electronic read-only ﬁles
by transmitting the ﬁles to the lender’s email address or by other electronic means.
Alternative Website Delivery
Another option to provide the required disclosure documentation is via Fannie Mae’s website. Under this option,
the lender informs the purchaser or oﬀeree of a security, as applicable, that the required disclosure materials
are available on Fannie Mae’s website. If the lender selects this Alternative Website Delivery option, the lender
must ﬁrst deliver or cause to be delivered the following:
a Notice of Oﬀering to each oﬀeree of a security that requests the oﬀering documentation (that is, the
MBS Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement for that security); and
a Notice of Sale to each purchaser of a security at the time the purchaser enters into a contract with the
lender for the purchase of the security.
The Notice of Oﬀering means a notice (including an electronic notice) prepared by the lender to oﬀerees of
securities. The Notice of Oﬀering must:
state that the oﬀering documentation is or will be available at Mortgage-Backed Securities  on Fannie
Mae’s website,
state that the information about Fannie Mae incorporated by reference into the oﬀering documentation is
available at Mortgage-Backed Securities,
explain how to access the oﬀering documentation and the documents incorporated by reference from the
website,
state that the oﬀeree has the right to request a printed copy of the oﬀering documentation, and
explain the procedure for requesting a printed copy of the oﬀering documentation.
The Notice of Sale means a notice (including an electronic notice) prepared by the lender to purchasers of
securities. The Notice of Sale must:
Published June 3, 2026
1033
state that the sale was made pursuant to the oﬀering documentation,
state that the oﬀering documentation is or will be available at Mortgage-Backed Securities,
state that the information about Fannie Mae incorporated by reference into the oﬀering documentation is
available at Mortgage-Backed Securities,
explain how to access the oﬀering documentation and the documents incorporated by reference from
Mortgage-Backed Securities,
state that the oﬀeree has the right to request a printed copy of the oﬀering documentation, and
explain the procedure for requesting a printed copy of the oﬀering documentation.
Notwithstanding the Standard Delivery and Alternative Website Delivery options, if the purchaser or oﬀeree of a
security requests a hardcopy version of the MBS Prospectus, Prospectus Supplement, or Supplement to the
Prospectus Supplement, the lender must honor the request in a timely manner.
The information in the MBS Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement for that security is the only information
about a pool (or the mortgage loans included in a pool) that a lender may disclose to the public.
Indemniﬁcation Against Losses
Lenders are subject to all indemniﬁcation obligations as described in A2-1-03, Indemniﬁcation for Losses.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-04 May 05, 2021
 
Published June 3, 2026
1034
Part D, Ensuring Quality Control (QC)
Introduction
This part discusses the quality control process for lenders and Fannie Mae.
D1, Lender QC Process
This subpart describes Fannie Mae’s requirements for lender quality control programs and practices.
D2, Fannie Mae QC Process
This subpart describes the process Fannie Mae uses to ensure that the mortgage loans it purchases or
securitizes meet its eligibility and underwriting requirements.