SECTION: C3-7-02
TITLE: Initiating an MBS Sale
EFFECTIVE: 07/07/2021
PAGES: 1034-1036
---
Published June 3, 2026
1016
remedies upon a default is a contractual right to liquidate such transaction as described in Section 555 and 556
of the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, and a right to terminate, liquidate, or accelerate as
described in Sections 5390(c)(8)(A) and (C) of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-09 October 06, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
 
C3-7-02, Initiating an MBS Sale (07/07/2021)
Introduction
This topic describes the steps lenders take to initiate an MBS, including UMBS, sale via Fannie Mae’s Capital
Markets Pricing and Sales Desk, including:
Determining the Trade Type
Checking Market Prices
Selecting a Settlement Date
Selecting a Settlement Method
Requesting and Accepting a Firm Bid/Oﬀer
Determining the Trade Type
If a lender sells MBS, its trade may be TBA or speciﬁed. With a TBA trade, the lender may deliver any UMBS
meeting eligibility requirements as deﬁned by SIFMA. A speciﬁed trade means that a speciﬁc MBS is being
traded and only that security can be delivered in satisfaction of the trade. TBA trades settle on the SIFMA
settlement dates (see Pool Settlement Dates).
Checking Market Prices
See C3-1-01, General Information About Fannie Mae’s MBS Program, for information on MBS prices and their
determinants. Prices of Fannie Mae MBS are quoted in 32nds of a percent for both immediate and forward
delivery issues.
Published June 3, 2026
1017
Selecting a Settlement Date
The lender must plan its settlement date to be sure it can deliver the securities as scheduled. In particular, the
lender must allow suﬃcient time after loan closing for the processing of the documentation package. Any errors
in the package can result in a delay in settlement.
Lenders may settle trades for newly issued securities on any day of the month in which they are issued. When a
trade is settled on a “regular” settlement date, it will occur on a date that is predetermined by SIFMA, based on
a schedule that changes periodically.
Note: Settlements cannot occur on holidays.
Selecting a Settlement Method
The method of funding the sale of a security depends on the settlement method the lender chooses when
delivering the pool to Fannie Mae. Lenders that want to use an early funding settlement option such as As Soon
As Pooled Sale (for pools) or As Soon As Pooled Plus (for whole loans) must execute a special agreement that
provides the speciﬁc terms for the type of transaction it is using. Lenders interested in using an early funding
settlement option should contact the Capital Market Sales Desk. See E-1-02, List of Contacts.
For newly issued securities, if a lender opts for an “original issue” settlement instead of “delivery vs. payment,”
lenders must specify Fannie Mae’s account in the wiring instructions on the Delivery Schedule (Form 2014) it
submits when the pool is delivered. Lenders using this option must follow SIFMA’s guidelines and submit
notiﬁcation 48 hours prior to settlement.
Existing MBS must be funded through “delivery vs. payment” (or a “delivery against funds” or “existing issue”)
settlement option. Under this settlement option, when Fannie Mae receives the security, it credits the lender’s
account at the institution that wires the security to the Desk.
If a lender has not sold the securities to an investor before it delivers loans to Fannie Mae and has not elected to
use the “original issue” settlement option, Fannie Mae will issue the securities to the lender.
Requesting and Accepting a Firm Bid/Oﬀer
When contacting the Desk to request a ﬁrm bid/oﬀer, the lender must be prepared to specify the following
information:
MBS product,
amount of the trade,
coupon rate,
settlement date,
unique characteristics of the pool that will back the security.
Fannie Mae’s Sales Desk will convey a bid/oﬀer for the security to the lender. If the lender accepts the ﬁrm bid
or ﬁrm oﬀer, the Sales Desk will lock in the bid or oﬀer and verify the trade details in a recorded telephone
Published June 3, 2026
1018
conversation with the lender.
That evening, Fannie Mae will send the lender a written conﬁrmation statement that includes the details of the
trade such as the trade number, date, amount, price, the coupon rate, and the settlement date. The
conﬁrmation, taken together with the relevant sections of this Guide, constitutes conclusive evidence of the
terms between Fannie Mae and the lender for the respective trade, unless the lender notiﬁes the Operations
team of any errors in the conﬁrmation by close of trading on the next trading day.  Lenders will be responsible
for any resulting economic diﬀerences from a trade if they fail to notify Fannie Mae of any errors in the
conﬁrmation within the speciﬁed window.
Note: For lenders executing trades with Fannie Mae via Fannie Mae’s electronic trading platform, the
lender’s trade details for the bid or oﬀer will be available through the platform using appropriate login
credentials.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-06 July 07, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-7-03, Making Good Delivery (05/01/2019)
Introduction
This topic describes the requirements for making good delivery of MBS, (which includes UMBS), including:
Good Delivery Conditions
Principal Amount of the Trade
Accrued Interest
Maximum Number of Pools and Minimum Delivery Amounts
Pairing Oﬀ
Good Delivery Conditions
Acceptance of a ﬁrm bid to sell MBS to the Desk is an enforceable obligation that requires the lender to deliver
the security at the parameters agreed upon at the time of the trade and in amount that meets the minimum
trade requirements for the commitment. When a lender meets this obligation, it has made good delivery.