SECTION: C3-7-06
TITLE: Settling the Trade
EFFECTIVE: 05/05/2021
PAGES: 1045-1049
---
Published June 3, 2026
1027
✓ Requirements
 Geographic concentration of the mortgages in the pool (if a concentration was speciﬁed at
the time of the trade)
Information Required for Presettling ARM MBS
ARM MBS pools are backed by ARMs of any age. For an ARM MBS pool, the lender must provide not only the
information required above (and the information for a seasoned pool above, if the pool is treated as a
“seasoned” pool), but also the following additional information:
✓ Requirements
 Index on which the periodic interest rate adjustments for the underlying mortgages are
based
 Periodic and lifetime interest rate caps for the underlying mortgages
 Periodic payment caps (if any) for the underlying mortgages
 MBS margin (which is the portion of the mortgage margin that is used to establish the pass-
through rate for the pool on each interest rate change date)
 Interest rate change date (which is the date on which the interest rates for the underlying
mortgages will be adjusted)
 Frequency of the interest rate adjustments for the underlying mortgages
 Applicability and terms of any conversion-to-ﬁxed-rate feature for the underlying mortgages
Recent Related Announcements
There are no recently issued Announcements related to this topic.
C3-7-06, Settling the Trade (05/05/2021)
Introduction
This topic provides information concerning buying an MBS from or selling the MBS to the Sales Desk, including:
Published June 3, 2026
1028
Turnaround Times for MBS Pool Deliveries
Distribution of Securities
“Due Bill” for MBS Pool Settlements
Multiple Warehouse Lenders
Rejection of a Wire Transfer/Change of Wire Transfer Instructions
Loan- and Pool-Level Information Available after Pool Closing
Turnaround Times for MBS Pool Deliveries
The following turnaround times apply to the elapsed time between Fannie Mae’s receipt of the lender’s error-
free loan delivery data, Fannie Mae’s receipt of the document custodian’s certiﬁcation that the lender submitted
a complete and accurate pool submission package, MBS disclosure data publishing, and Fannie Mae’s book-
entry delivery of the securities.
Note: The names of the days of the week are used as an example only.
If processing
type is
And lender’s
error-free
transmission is
received by:
And custodian’s
certiﬁcation is
received by:
Then,
disclosure
data is
published by:
Then, book-
entry delivery
of securities
will be by:
Single-Issue Pool
1
6:00 p.m. (ET) on
Monday
10:30 a.m. (ET) on
Tuesday
6:30 a.m. (ET)
on Wednesday
Thursday (4
business days)
Fannie Majors
1
6:00 p.m. (ET) on
Monday
10:30 a.m. (ET) on
Tuesday
6:30 a.m. (ET)
on Wednesday
Wednesday (3
business days)
If the pool is being delivered into a TBA trade, all TBA good delivery guidelines (per SIFMA) apply. These
guidelines require the seller of MBS to provide the prospectus and the prospectus supplement at least 48 hours
prior to TBA settlement.
If Fannie Mae cannot meet a lender’s speciﬁed book-entry date, Fannie Mae will not be responsible for any
direct, indirect, or consequential damages that the lender incurs because of the delayed book-entry delivery.
See C3-7-07, Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties for additional information.
Distribution of Securities
When Fannie Mae accepts an MBS pool submission for securitization, it issues a security backed by the
mortgages in the pool and delivers it electronically through the Federal Reserve Book-Entry System to an
account in an institution that the lender speciﬁes. The lender’s book-entry delivery date may be the same date
as settlement, but must not be later than the last day of the month in which the pool issue date occurs.
“Due Bill” for MBS Pool Settlements
Published June 3, 2026
1029
A due bill is a document that the seller of a security issues to the purchaser of the security to enable the
purchaser to redeem principal and interest the seller receives after the record date.
If the settlement occurs before the record date, but the delivery and payment on the trade will occur between
the record date and a subsequent “payable” date, then the due bill should accompany the securities.
If the delivery and payment occur after the payable date, then a postdated check for the amount of P&I the
purchaser is due, which will serve as the due bill until the postdated date of the check, must accompany the
securities. When securities are transferred over the Federal Reserve’s book-entry system, a Fedwire message is
an acceptable substitute for the check. Due bill or Fedwire messages are valid for 60 days.
The purchaser may submit a due bill or Fedwire message to the seller for payment as soon as pool factors are
available. As long as the request for payment is presented three or more days before a “payable” date, the
seller will pay the purchaser the amount on the “payable” date. If the purchaser requests payment after that,
the seller has three days from the date of the due bill or Fedwire message is presented in which to pay the
purchaser.
Multiple Warehouse Lenders
Currently, Fannie Mae can only link one warehouse lender to each document custodian the lender uses for its
MBS pool deliveries. Therefore, if a lender that uses only one document custodian, and assembles pools
involving more than one warehouse lender (or uses diﬀerent warehouse lenders for some MBS pools), the lender
will need to designate one warehouse lender to represent the interests of the other warehouse lenders it uses.
The other warehouse lenders must execute written agreements that:
give the designated warehouse lender the authority to represent them for those mortgages in MBS pools
in which they have an interest; and
obligate the designated warehouse lender to take the steps necessary to ensure that they receive
securities equal to their interests in the mortgages in the MBS pools, when appropriate.
Rejection of a Wire Transfer/Change of Wire Transfer Instructions
If a Fannie Mae wire transfer is rejected by a depository institution or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
Fannie Mae will contact the lender for veriﬁcation of the instructions and request that it update any information
that resulted in the rejection.
To change wire transfer instructions, the lender may modify its Delivery Schedule (Form 2014) any time prior to
6:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on the business day preceding the designated book-entry delivery date, except when
the lender is using an early funding option or delivers a loan under a bailee letter. See C3-7-02, Initiating an
MBS Sale for additional information.
If a change will aﬀect the lender’s warehouse lender, the lender should contact the warehouse lender. If the
warehouse lender disagrees with the lender’s initial wire transfer instructions or any subsequent changes the
lender makes to them, the warehouse lender should contact the lender. Fannie Mae will not compensate the
lender or warehouse lender for any losses, costs, expenses, or damages it or another party incurs as a result of
Fannie Mae’s adherence to the lender’s instructions.
Published June 3, 2026
1030
Loan- and Pool-Level Information Available after Pool Closing
The table below summarizes the types and locations of MBS pool-related information that is available after the
MBS pool is closed.
Information Type/Report Location
Loan Numbers: The servicer of the MBS mortgages
should enter the Fannie Mae loan numbers into its
records immediately since they must be used in
reporting all subsequent activity related to the
mortgages to Fannie Mae
Fannie Mae Loan Numbers export in Loan Delivery
and the Fannie Mae Loan Numbers for MBS in the
Loan Delivery category of Fannie Mae Connect
Final Schedule of Mortgages showing pool-level and
loan-level characteristics, pools closed, and a
history of its closed pools
MBS Final Schedule of Mortgages (Seller Version)
or MBS Final Schedule of Mortgages (Servicer
Version) in the Loan Delivery category of Fannie
Mae Connect
Guaranty fee buyup and buydown ratio, pool
proceeds and other pool-level and loan-level
characteristics. A lender may download this report
and use it to verify all of the information for closed
MBS pools.
Buy Up/Buy Down Report in the Pricing &
Execution category of Fannie Mae Connect
Publishing of MBS pool and loan data and
prospectus supplement PoolTalk
The last day to submit single and Fannie Majors pools is 6:00 p.m. (ET) on the ﬁfth to last business day
before the end of the month.
1
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2021-04 May 05, 2021
Announcement SEL-2019-09 December 04, 2019
Published June 3, 2026
1031
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-04 May 01, 2019
 
C3-7-07, Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties (05/05/2021)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the sale of Fannie Mae securities to third parties, including:
Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties Overview
Required Disclosure Materials
Standard Delivery
Alternative Website Delivery
Indemniﬁcation Against Losses
Sale of Fannie Mae Securities to Third Parties Overview
The lender must provide each purchaser of a security a copy of the most recent Fannie Mae MBS Prospectus
when it enters into a contract to sell the security.
If the security purchaser requests an original printed version of the Prospectus, Prospectus Supplement, or
Supplement to Prospectus Supplement, the lender must honor the request in a timely manner. Electronic
versions of these documents are available at Mortgage-Backed Securities.
Copies of the prospectus and the related prospectus supplement may be obtained by writing to Trust
Agreement and Prospectus Requests or by calling the Fannie Mae Delivery and Custody Helpline (see E-1-02,
List of Contacts). Typically, the prospectus supplement is available no later than two business days before
settlement of the related issuance of certiﬁcates.
If a newly issued pool has already been sold to a third party for future settlement, the lender is responsible for
ensuring they abide by all rules related to the trade. This includes providing all necessary disclosure documents
as deﬁned by the relevant trade agreement with the counterparty.
Required Disclosure Materials
The lender must provide the required disclosure documentation (described below) to a purchaser or prospective
purchaser, as applicable. The lender will have two options to provide this disclosure: the lender must follow
either the Standard Delivery option or the Alternative Website Delivery option, each as described below. The
lender’s sale of securities—including any that Fannie Mae delivers based on the lender’s instructions on the