SECTION: D1-1-02
TITLE: Lender Quality Control Staffing and Outsourcing of the Quality Control Process
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2026
PAGES: 1059-1061
---
Published June 3, 2026
1041
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-06 September 04, 2024
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
D1-1-02, Lender Quality Control Staﬃng and Outsourcing of the
Quality Control Process (04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on lender QC staﬀ and outsourcing, including:
QC Functional Area Reporting Structure and Staﬃng
Outsourcing of the QC File Review Process
QC Vendor Management
QC Functional Area Reporting Structure and Staﬃng
To preserve the integrity of the process, all QC employees (including those related to establishing, monitoring,
and enforcing procedures) must be independent of the production, underwriting, and closing departments. If it
is not evident that a lender’s organizational structure allows for separation of these functions, the lender’s QC
plan must include the rationale for the lack of separation and the controls that have been established to
mitigate the potential associated risks. When the independence of the functions is not evident, the lender must
be able to demonstrate the following in its QC program:
clearly deﬁned testing protocols that are governed by change control and approval authority that support
program-level independence, and
documentation at the loan level that supports changes to audit decisions made during the review and
rebuttal process.
The lender must establish minimum requirements for the skill set and expertise of the staﬀ managing and
performing the QC ﬁle review process, including the QC vendor oversight, as applicable, by documenting
minimum job qualiﬁcations. The lender is responsible for ensuring that all individuals conducting QC reviews are
adequately trained and have suﬃcient experience levels relative to the reviews being conducted, including
manual underwriting and/or loans processed through any automated underwriting systems utilized by the
lender. The lender is also responsible for ensuring that reviewers conducting more complex or specialized
Published June 3, 2026
1042
reviews (for example, collateral risk assessments or evaluations of self-employed borrowers) have the requisite
knowledge and experience to perform those reviews eﬀectively.
Detailed policies and procedures for the QC ﬁle review process must be provided to all employees who will be
involved with the QC ﬁle reviews.
Outsourcing of the QC File Review Process
Quality control is a critical element in an eﬀective overall risk management framework. As such, Fannie Mae
holds the lender fully accountable for its overall QC program and for ensuring that QC ﬁle reviews comply with
Fannie Mae’s requirements, regardless of whether the work is performed by the lender itself or by an
outsourced QC vendor. The lender’s contract for services is not a substitute for the lender establishing and
maintaining its own QC plan.
The lender must ensure the QC vendor conducts ﬁle reviews in accordance with the lender’s QC plan. The QC
vendor must have written policies and procedures detailing its review methodologies, including selections,
identiﬁcation of defects and trends, reveriﬁcations, and reporting those results to the lender. The lender must
ensure that the vendor’s review staﬀ possesses the qualiﬁcations and experience required to provide quality
reviews and meaningful analysis, and that the vendor’s policies and procedures align with the lender’s QC
policies and procedures and meet Fannie Mae’s requirements.
The lender must fully incorporate the results of the vendor’s reviews into its QC reporting and remediation
processes. The lender must also have procedures to associate the appropriate severity levels with the identiﬁed
defects, and to implement corrective actions within the lender’s organization, the same as it would for defects
identiﬁed by the lender’s own QC staﬀ or QC contractors.
QC Vendor Management
If a lender chooses to utilize a third-party vendor for all or a portion of their QC ﬁle review process. The lender’s
QC plan must include processes for reviewing the vendor’s work to ensure that the lender’s requirements and
guidelines are applied consistently and that the review results accurately reﬂect the quality of the lender’s
originations. The lender must perform a monthly review of at least 10% of the post-closing QC sample reviewed
by the vendor to validate the accuracy and completeness of the vendor’s work. The 10% sample must include
loans for which the vendor identiﬁed defects and for which no defects were identiﬁed. 
This review must be performed by the lender itself and may not be contracted out.
Reports reﬂecting the ﬁnal results of the 10% QC vendor review must be produced monthly and completed
within 30 days following the publication of the ﬁnal QC management report. Although Fannie Mae does not
specify an exact format, the reports must be useful to management in evaluating and monitoring the quality of
the outsourced QC vendor. The reports, at a minimum, must include:
a description of the sample selected for review,
concurrence rates, and
discrepancies identiﬁed by the lender.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Published June 3, 2026
1043
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-03 April 01, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
D1-1-03, Lender Quality Control Reporting (04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains requirements for lender QC reporting, including elements required for all reports, prefunding
and post-closing.
Reporting Requirements for All Quality Control Reporting
Prefunding Reporting Requirements
Post-closing Reporting Requirements
Reporting Requirements for All Quality Control Reporting
Although Fannie Mae does not specify an exact format for reports, the lender must design reports that are
useful to management for evaluating and monitoring the quality of the lender's loan production.
The lender must provide Fannie Mae with a copy of its QC reports upon request.
At a minimum, the lender's reporting must:
be in writing and shared with management monthly;
summarize results into a comprehensive, summary report of all QC ﬁndings;
communicate defects to responsible parties (that is, lender departments or business units); and
use consistent methodology and terminology, including defect categories and severity levels.
 
Prefunding Reporting Requirements
Prefunding reports must, at a minimum, include: