SECTION: D1-2-01
TITLE: Lender Prefunding Quality Control Review Process
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2026
PAGES: 1063-1065
---
Published June 3, 2026
1045
D1-2-01, Lender Prefunding Quality Control Review Process
(04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the lender’s prefunding QC process and loan ﬁle reviews, including:
Overview
Timing of File Reviews
Loan Selection Process
Review Types
Overview
The lender must maintain and implement a written prefunding QC plan that outlines requirements for reviewing
a sample of its loans prior to closing or, in the case of loans acquired from a delegated third- party, prior to
acquisition. The lender must have documented procedures that include, at a minimum, the following elements:
timing of the prefunding QC ﬁle reviews,
loan selection process, and
veriﬁcation of data and documents.
The lender’s prefunding QC process must operate independent of the lender’s production process, if practical.
At a minimum, prefunding QC must be conducted by individuals who have no involvement in the origination,
processing or underwriting functions of the loan being reviewed.
The lender’s prefunding QC plan must be designed in a manner that supports its ability to identify and address
defects prior to closing or acquiring the loan. The results of prefunding ﬁle reviews provide important and timely
feedback, allowing the lender to identify loans with defects (such as analysis or calculation errors, inaccurate
data, or inadequate documentation) prior to closing or acquiring the loan, and prevents the lender from selling
ineligible loans to Fannie Mae.
Timing of File Reviews
Prefunding QC reviews must be conducted early enough in the origination process to allow adequate time to
make loan selections, complete the reviews, and properly inform the loan production staﬀ so that corrections
can be made prior to loan closing or acquisition. The lender must complete the review when there is suﬃcient
documentation in the ﬁle to perform the required review of data and documents described in Review Types,
below.
Loan Selection Process
The lender's prefunding QC plan must contain requirements for full-ﬁle reviews and analysis of data and
Published June 3, 2026
1046
documents prior to funding. In addition to the required full-ﬁle reviews, the lender may choose to conduct
component reviews by making loan selections designed to focus solely on a speciﬁc element of the loan or
underwriting component (for example, income and employment, assets, credit, or property). 
Component reviews may be completed without performing a full-ﬁle review. They should be completed in areas
the lender believes pose unique or elevated risk, or to conﬁrm that a particular control or process is working as
intended, such as newly added controls or processes. A full-ﬁle review is a comprehensive review of the
underwriting decision while a component review is a review of a speciﬁc element.
The lender must establish and document a monthly process for selecting loans for its prefunding QC reviews.
The process should take into account the lender’s assessment of the risks inherent in its origination processes,
business sources, production channels, volume, and product mix. The lender should regularly review its risk
assessments to ensure the sample selected, including sample size, is appropriate. The monthly sample must
include selections from each of the lender's production channels.
Fannie Mae reserves the right to require the lender to make adjustments or impose minimum sampling
requirements if a lender's approach does not provide adequate representation or eﬀectively identify risk.
Review Types
Leveraging a mix of full ﬁle and component reviews can enable lenders to review more loans and provide a
broader comprehensive risk review than simply performing a full review on all loans sampled.
Full-File Reviews
Full-ﬁle reviews are comprehensive reviews of an underwriting decision and must include review of, at a
minimum, the following data and documents to ensure the documents are present and complete, and that the
data relied upon in making the underwriting decision is accurate. A full-ﬁle review must include an assessment
of all of the following:
data entered into an automated underwriting system;
borrower Social Security number(s);
income calculations and supporting documentation;
employment documentation, including verbal veriﬁcation of employment;
assets needed to close or meet reserve requirements;
appraisal or other eligible collateral data or documentation, if applicable, including reconciliation of CU
ﬂags and messages;
adequate mortgage insurance coverage as required for the loan transaction. See B7-1-02, Mortgage
Insurance Coverage Requirements for additional information; and
occupancy.
For loans with income or assets validated by the DU validation service, the lender is not required to recalculate
validated income or assets as part of its prefunding QC review. However, the lender remains responsible for
conﬁrming that the veriﬁcation report ID matches the ID captured in the ﬁnal DU ﬁndings report and the
veriﬁcation report has not expired.
For all loans, including those with validated income, assets, and employment, the lender must continue to
ensure the information it enters in DU is appropriate based on its review and investigation of any inconsistent or
contradictory information in the loan ﬁle and the veriﬁcation report.
Published June 3, 2026
1047
Component Reviews
Component reviews focus on speciﬁc elements of a loan and typically can be completed more eﬃciently than
full-ﬁle reviews. Targeting high-risk elements can help create visibility into unknown risks and conﬁrm controls
are working eﬀectively. 
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-03 April 01, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2023-09 October 04, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-02 March 01, 2023
 
Chapter D1-3, Lender Post-Closing QC Mortgage Review
Introduction
This chapter explains the requirements for a lender’s post-closing QC review process. It addresses the timing of
ﬁle reviews, the process for selecting random and discretionary loan samples, review of data used in
underwriting, and reveriﬁcation requirements.
D1-3-01, Lender Post-Closing Quality Control Review Process
(04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the lender’s post-closing QC review process and selecting loans for the post-
closing QC reviews, including:
Timing of QC Review Process
Loan Selection Process