SECTION: D1-3-03
TITLE: Lender Post-Closing Quality Control Reverifications
EFFECTIVE: 04/01/2026
PAGES: 1072-1076
---
Published June 3, 2026
1054
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2024-05 August 07, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-05 June 07, 2023
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-09 October 05, 2022
Announcement SEL-2020-07 December 16, 2020
Announcement SEL-2019-07 August 07, 2019
 
D1-3-03, Lender Post-Closing Quality Control Reveriﬁcations
(04/01/2026)
Introduction
This topic contains information on the lender's post-closing QC reveriﬁcations, including:
Overview
Requirements for Reveriﬁcations
Overview
The reveriﬁcation process is designed to conﬁrm the authenticity of the loan documentation and verify the
accuracy and integrity of the information relied upon in the underwriting decision. The process also serves to
substantiate that no material changes have occurred that would aﬀect the loan's eligibility as delivered to
Fannie Mae. For QC random reviews, the lender must request reveriﬁcation of the components of the loan ﬁle
utilized for qualiﬁcation, which may include income, employment, assets, liabilities, valuation (appraisal or
property data collection), and occupancy.
The lender must use the information in the reveriﬁcation documentation to reconcile the information used to
underwrite the loan and make the lending decision.
Published June 3, 2026
1055
Requirements for Reveriﬁcations
The lender must pay any applicable fees charged by employers, ﬁnancial institutions, or other third- parties
used to obtain reveriﬁcation information.
The lender may supplement reveriﬁcation processes with alternative information sources available online,
sources maintained by government agencies or other licensing authorities, and through the use of other third-
parties to obtain a successful reveriﬁcation result.
If the reveriﬁcation process reveals information that diﬀers from what was used in underwriting, the lender must
re-underwrite the loan to conﬁrm its eligibility for delivery to Fannie Mae.
For all loans selected for full-ﬁle review, the post-closing random QC review must reverify the following:
income and employment,
income tax returns,
assets,
credit history,
property eligibility and property value, and
occupancy.
If the lender cannot obtain required post-closing QC reveriﬁcations, the lender must document the loan ﬁle with
the request date, and that the information requested was not obtained. The lender must track reveriﬁcation
results, including successful reveriﬁcations and unsuccessful attempts.
The borrower's income, employment, or assets do not have to be reveriﬁed (or recalculated) if they were
validated by the DU Validation Service, and
the lender satisﬁed all the requirements for obtaining representation and warranty enforcement relief (as
described in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of Representations and Warranties), and
the loan closed by the "Close by Date" stated in the DU validation message.
For loans with representation and warranty enforcement relief related to undisclosed non-mortgage liabilities,
the lender is not required to re-underwrite the loan to conﬁrm its eligibility for delivery to Fannie Mae when:
the new, post-closing QC credit report reveals non-mortgage debt that was not disclosed by the borrower
or discovered by the lender prior to or concurrent with the day of closing,
the lender's review of the ﬁle does not identify inconsistencies between the data or information in the
loan ﬁle and the information submitted to DU, and
all conditions for eligibility for relief described in A2-2-04, Limited Waiver and Enforcement Relief of
Representations and Warranties have been met, including the reconciliation of conﬂicting and
contradictory information and closing by the credit report expiration date.
Income and Employment
The lender must reverify the income and employment that was used to underwrite the loan and conﬁrm that all
income of all borrowers has not changed to the point where the loan is ineligible for delivery to Fannie Mae. 
Reveriﬁcation of income and employment must align with the documentation requirements for the applicable
income type. If the lender is required to document income using IRS W-2 forms for the most recent one-year
Published June 3, 2026
1056
period in addition to a year-to-date paystub, all income and employment documents covering that period must
be reveriﬁed. This includes reveriﬁcation of each employer if the borrower had more than one employer during
the applicable timeframe.
When an automated income veriﬁcation was obtained directly from an approved Fannie Mae vendor,
reveriﬁcation of that income is not required.
A verbal reveriﬁcation of employment and income is acceptable if the lender documents the conversation,
including the date, name, title, and contact information of the person providing the details.
Income Tax Returns
The post-closing QC review must include the lender's submission for tax transcripts to the IRS (or designee)
using the IRS Form 4506-C (or an alternative IRS form or process that authorizes the release of comparable tax
information) when tax returns were required and relied upon in underwriting to support the borrower's income.
Tax transcripts obtained through post-closing QC are used to reverify the accuracy and authenticity of the tax
returns that supported the underwriting decision. The lender must reconcile the IRS transcript information with
the corresponding income documentation in the loan ﬁle. See B3-3.1-02, Tax Return and Transcript
Documentation Requirements, for detailed information.
The following exception applies:
If the lender obtained the appropriate IRS transcripts during its preclosing process (processing and
underwriting), it may use the same documents in its post-closing QC process, without ordering new transcripts. 
Assets
The lender must request reveriﬁcation of all sources of funds used for the down payment, closing costs, and
reserves. Reveriﬁcation must be performed using the original documentation. 
The reveriﬁcation documentation obtained in post-closing QC must be compared to the documentation from
origination to authenticate the amounts used are accurate and to ensure no documentation alterations were
made.
If the lender conﬁrms that an institution will not reverify asset account information on a systemic basis and
maintains a separate log documenting the lender's conﬁrmation of each institution's process, the lender is not
required to document the reveriﬁcation attempt for each individual loan. The lender must establish and follow a
routine to reverify the institution's process and remains responsible for the accuracy and integrity of the
information. 
When an automated asset veriﬁcation was obtained directly from an approved Fannie Mae vendor, reveriﬁcation
of that asset is not required. When a third-party asset veriﬁcation report is provided to DU for an assessment of
rent payment history or a cash ﬂow assessment, reveriﬁcation of the full 12 months of asset data is not
required. Reveriﬁcation of the assets used speciﬁcally for veriﬁcation of assets is required as described above.
Credit History
The post-closing QC review must include reveriﬁcation of the borrower's credit history.
If a borrower's credit was evaluated by using a traditional credit report, the lender must reverify the borrower's
credit history by obtaining a new tri-merge credit report. The new report does not need to generate a new
Published June 3, 2026
1057
inquiry that will appear on future credit reports or include trended credit data; even if reﬂected on the credit
report used for underwriting purposes. The lender is not required to analyze trended credit data in the new
credit report.
If a borrower's credit history was evaluated by using nontraditional credit or a nontraditional mortgage credit
report, the lender must reverify each of the credit references on that report. If the lender obtained written
references from creditors, the lender's QC review process must include reveriﬁcation of each of the credit
references.
The liability information obtained on the new credit report must be reconciled against the credit report or
references used at the time of underwriting to identify any discrepancies or the existence of any debt that may
not have been taken into account when the loan was underwritten. 
Property Eligibility and Property Value
The lender must complete a collateral risk assessment for loans with an appraisal or property data collection.
Full appraisal collateral risk assessment must include the elements shown in the following table.
✓ The lender must...
 determine the property meets eligibility requirements including the LTV, CLTV, and HCLTV ratios.
 
assess the appropriateness of comparable sales. Appraisal comps do not have to be reveriﬁed on
appraisals with a Collateral Underwriter (CU) score of 2.5 or below if the lender satisﬁed all the
requirements for obtaining representation and warranty enforcement relief (as described in A2-2-06,
Representations and Warranties on Property Value.
 assess the appropriateness of the data presented and verify the appraisal report complies with
B4-1.1-04, Unacceptable Appraisal Practices.
 conclude that the rationale for the reconciliation of value is supported.
 
reconcile ﬂags and messages that were identiﬁed in Collateral Underwriter (CU) if the property was
able to be scored in CU. If the property was not able to be scored in CU, then reconcile any known
quality messages (messages, alerts, ﬂags) reﬂected in other third-party tools, if utilized.
If the lender is unable to complete the collateral risk assessment or evaluate the origination appraisal, it may
order either a desk review or ﬁeld review from a licensed appraiser. The desk review or ﬁeld review must
account for all of the above collateral risk assessment requirements.
Property data collection collateral risk assessment must include the elements shown in the following table.
Published June 3, 2026
1058
✓ The lender must...
 assess the accuracy of the data obtained through the property data collection.
 identify any property eligibility issues and items of safety, soundness, or structural integrity concern.
 determine whether the lender appropriately required repairs or inspections.
Occupancy
The post-closing QC review must include occupancy assessment for the subject property. The lender must
review the loan ﬁle documentation (for example, property insurance policy, appraisal, income tax returns or
transcripts, lease agreements, etc.) to conﬁrm the documented occupancy is accurate.
When occupancy red ﬂags are identiﬁed, the lender must further investigate. For example, the lender may use
publicly available listing or sale information or hire a door-knock service to ensure the occupancy status is
accurate.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcement Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2026-03 April 01, 2026
Announcement SEL-2025-09 November 05, 2025
Announcement SEL-2025-04 June 04, 2025
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
Subpart D2, Fannie Mae QC Process
Introduction
Fannie Mae’s Loan Quality Center reviews a sample of the mortgage loans purchased or securitized by Fannie
Mae to ensure that they meet its underwriting and eligibility requirements. This subpart describes Fannie Mae’s
policies and practices with respect to the selection, review, and reporting of results; and the lender’s
responsibilities for participating in this process. Fannie Mae also reviews servicing ﬁles with the primary focus of