SECTION: D2-1-02
TITLE: Fannie Mae QC File Request and Submission Requirements
EFFECTIVE: 03/06/2024
PAGES: 1078-1080
---
Published June 3, 2026
1060
Fannie Mae’s QC policies are administered by its Loan Quality Center. The selection process may change at any
time to address risk concerns.
As a component of overall loan quality, the Data Validation Center team reviews loan data exceptions that are
identiﬁed after Fannie Mae acquires the loan. This includes and data exceptions that may be found through
reviews. The Data Validation Center works with lenders to research data exceptions and submit related data
corrections. In some instances, the data change review may lead to a full underwriting review if eligibility
concerns are identiﬁed or the data exception cannot be resolved. See C1-2-01, General Information on
Delivering Loan Data and Documents, for additional information.
Fannie Mae QC Reports
Fannie Mae provides lenders with ongoing feedback about their overall QC performance. The feedback identiﬁes
defect types, reporting on frequent or common defects, and describes quality trend analyses and signiﬁcant
underwriting deﬁciencies identiﬁed through the QC loan ﬁle review process. This information is provided through
a variety of methods that range from regular electronic transmissions to more formal periodic discussions.
The detailed loan-level reports that lenders receive identify signiﬁcant defects, ﬁndings, and loans with no
identiﬁed defects.
Fannie Mae’s quality control process provides lenders with a holistic view of loan quality by identifying loans
with signiﬁcant defects as well as loans that had ﬁndings that do not aﬀect the overall eligibility. Fannie Mae
believes that providing this additional feedback supplies lenders with an important source of information that
can lead to improving loan quality in the future. At times this reporting may contain nonpublic personal
information (NPI). Fannie Mae shares this NPI with lenders in compliance with permitted purposes under
applicable privacy laws. See A3-4-01, Conﬁdentiality of Information, for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
D2-1-02, Fannie Mae QC File Request and Submission Requirements
(03/06/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Fannie Mae QC requests for loan ﬁles, including:
Published June 3, 2026
1061
Notiﬁcation of a QC Review
Document Submission Requirements
Loan File Delivery Timeline
Notiﬁcation of a QC Review
Lenders are notiﬁed which loans Fannie Mae has selected for QC review via an email sent by Fannie Mae’s Loan
Quality Connect. Therefore, lenders are required to register for Loan Quality Connect to obtain access to it.
Document Submission Requirements
Lenders must maintain a complete loan ﬁle, including all documents used to support the underwriting decision.
Upon Fannie Mae’s request, lenders must provide electronic copies of the complete loan ﬁle, as described in the
request.
When a third-party asset veriﬁcation report is provided to DU for an assessment of rent payment history or a
cash ﬂow assessment, an asset veriﬁcation report covering the minimum period of time described in  A2-4.1-01,
Establishing Loan Files, is required to be maintained in the loan ﬁle and provided upon request.
When income or employment are validated by the DU validation service using an asset veriﬁcation report, the
asset report covering the period of time that is required to be retained in the loan ﬁle (that is, 30- or 60- days)
must be provided upon request. The lender will be required to provide the full asset veriﬁcation report
containing the entirety of the data provided to DU only if requested by Fannie Mae.
Loan ﬁles or documents can be uploaded using the drag-and-drop feature or by uploading to the corresponding
task in Loan Quality Connect. Lenders should contact the Loan Quality Center for assistance in determining
which electronic option best aligns with their business needs and operations, and to initiate the on-boarding
process, if they have not already done so. See the following resources for additional information:
Bulk Upload of Loan Files or Documents
E-1-02, List of Contacts, for the Digital Data Control Team - LQC; and
Loan Quality Connect.
Loan ﬁles must include clear, complete “copies” of any required documents. Lenders should remove all
duplicate documents before sending in the ﬁle. The requested ﬁles must include the applicable documentation
listed in the Post-Closing Loan File Document Checklist (Form 1032). For information concerning the required
contents of a loan ﬁle, see A2-4.1-02, Ownership and Retention of Loan Files and Records. (Completion and
submission of Form 1032 is optional.) Lenders must follow the electronic submission naming protocol to
associate the Fannie Mae loan number with the electronic ﬁle.
Lenders that are unable to submit loan ﬁles in the supported format should contact the Loan Quality Center to
determine if an alternate format may be used as an interim submission method. To avoid non-compliant loan
ﬁles, lenders should not submit loan ﬁles using an alternate method without approval from the Loan Quality
Center to ensure that Fannie Mae can access and review the loan ﬁle documentation and that the lender
receives credit for the loan ﬁle submission. Loan ﬁles submitted using an alternate method (for example, paper
ﬁles) without prior approval from the Loan Quality Center may not be accepted.
Published June 3, 2026
1062
Loan File Delivery Timeline
Lenders must send the requested documentation for an underwriting, servicing, or data validation review within
30 days after Fannie Mae notiﬁes the lender that it has selected a loan for review. Fannie Mae, in its sole
discretion, may request the documentation in a shorter or longer period of time based upon circumstances at
the time.
Fannie Mae will make every eﬀort to work with lenders when extenuating circumstances prevent them from
delivering documentation in a timely manner. However, if a lender delays in providing the requested
information, Fannie Mae, in its sole discretion, may require indemniﬁcation or repurchase (depending on the
circumstances of the individual case) of these loans. When a lender has a pattern of extensive delays or
unresponsiveness, Fannie Mae may consider this a breach of contract and consider other actions against the
lender, up to and including termination.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2024-02 March 06, 2024
Announcement SEL-2023-01 February 01, 2023
Announcement SEL-2022-09 October 05, 2022
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
Announcement SEL-2019-01 February 06, 2019
 
D2-1-03, Outcomes of Fannie Mae QC Reviews (11/03/2015)
Introduction
This topic describes the possible outcomes of Fannie Mae QC reviews, including:
Deﬁnition of Origination Defects Under the Remedies Framework
Criteria for Determining Signiﬁcant Defects Under the Remedies Framework
Breach of Mortgage Insurance Policy