SECTION: D2-1-01
TITLE: General Information on Fannie Mae QC Reviews
EFFECTIVE: 04/03/2019
PAGES: 1077-1078
---
Published June 3, 2026
1059
conﬁrming that the mortgage loan has been serviced in accordance with the and Lender Contract. See the for a
description of the servicing QC process. In addition, within the Loan Quality Center, the Data Validation Center
team follows up on loan-level data discrepancies to perform required data changes that, in some instances, may
indicate eligibility concerns leading to a full underwriting review.
Chapter D2-1, General Information on Fannie Mae QC Process
Introduction
This chapter provides general information on the Fannie Mae QC reviews that focus on underwriting and
eligibility requirements.
D2-1-01, General Information on Fannie Mae QC Reviews
(04/03/2019)
Introduction
This topic contains general information on Fannie Mae's QC reviews, including:
Fannie Mae’s QC Policy
Fannie Mae QC Reports
Fannie Mae’s QC Policy
Fannie Mae has QC policies and procedures in place for its review of performing and non-performing mortgage
loans. Fannie Mae uses a statistically valid approach in selecting a random sample of new mortgage loan
deliveries for review. The random sample is augmented with targeted, discretionary sampling, which aids in the
measurement of the overall quality of loan deliveries. The QC process evaluates loan ﬁles on a comprehensive
basis with the primary focus of conﬁrming that mortgage loans meet Fannie Mae’s underwriting and eligibility
requirements. The satisfactory conclusion of QC reviews may also result in mortgage loans being eligible for
relief from enforcement for breaches of certain representations and warranties. See A2-3.2-02, Enforcement
Relief for Breaches of Certain Representations and Warranties Related to Underwriting and Eligibility, for
additional information.
The QC process also provides lenders with data and feedback about the quality of their loan origination process.
The goal is to engage lenders in frequent, meaningful exchanges of information about trends in the quality of
delivered loans and to inform lenders about signiﬁcant underwriting deﬁciencies identiﬁed through the review
process. Together, Fannie Mae and its lenders should share a commitment to improving the quality of loan
originations.
Published June 3, 2026
1060
Fannie Mae’s QC policies are administered by its Loan Quality Center. The selection process may change at any
time to address risk concerns.
As a component of overall loan quality, the Data Validation Center team reviews loan data exceptions that are
identiﬁed after Fannie Mae acquires the loan. This includes and data exceptions that may be found through
reviews. The Data Validation Center works with lenders to research data exceptions and submit related data
corrections. In some instances, the data change review may lead to a full underwriting review if eligibility
concerns are identiﬁed or the data exception cannot be resolved. See C1-2-01, General Information on
Delivering Loan Data and Documents, for additional information.
Fannie Mae QC Reports
Fannie Mae provides lenders with ongoing feedback about their overall QC performance. The feedback identiﬁes
defect types, reporting on frequent or common defects, and describes quality trend analyses and signiﬁcant
underwriting deﬁciencies identiﬁed through the QC loan ﬁle review process. This information is provided through
a variety of methods that range from regular electronic transmissions to more formal periodic discussions.
The detailed loan-level reports that lenders receive identify signiﬁcant defects, ﬁndings, and loans with no
identiﬁed defects.
Fannie Mae’s quality control process provides lenders with a holistic view of loan quality by identifying loans
with signiﬁcant defects as well as loans that had ﬁndings that do not aﬀect the overall eligibility. Fannie Mae
believes that providing this additional feedback supplies lenders with an important source of information that
can lead to improving loan quality in the future. At times this reporting may contain nonpublic personal
information (NPI). Fannie Mae shares this NPI with lenders in compliance with permitted purposes under
applicable privacy laws. See A3-4-01, Conﬁdentiality of Information, for additional information.
Recent Related Announcements
The table below provides references to recently issued Announcements that are related to this topic.
Announcements Issue Date
Announcement SEL-2019-03 April 03, 2019
 
D2-1-02, Fannie Mae QC File Request and Submission Requirements
(03/06/2024)
Introduction
This topic contains information on Fannie Mae QC requests for loan ﬁles, including: